### Sorting

Is there a way to have the generated maps sorted by *title* instead of *filename* when show=title is used?
Thanks 

-- Thiana

> [[bugs/map_sorts_by_pagename_and_not_title_when_show__61__title_is_used]] --[[Joey]] 

----

Question: Is there a way to generate a listing that shows *both* title and description meta information? Currently, a \[\[!map ...]] shows only one of the two, but I'd like to generate a navigation that looks like a description list. For example:

 * This is the title meta information.

   This is the description meta information

 * This is another title.  

   And so on ...

Is that possible?

--Peter

> the map directive could be made to use templates as the [[inline directive|ikiwiki/directive/inline]] does. (for the ambitious, the map functionality might even be special-cased into the inline plugin, i think) --[[chrysn]]

----

The site I'm trying to set up right now (not really a wiki - no public editing) is divided into topics.  Topics are pages that have `\[[!meta link="/topic"]]`.  Topic pages contain an index of their subpages (done with `\[[!inline]]`); the subpages are the real content.  I want a map in the sidebar that lists:

 * all of the topics;
 * all of the first-level subpages of the *current topic only*.

That is, if the current page is "Topic A" or "Topic A/Page 1", then the map should look like

    Topic A
        Page 1
        Page 2
        Page 3
    Topic B
    Topic C

but if the current page is "Topic B" or one of its subpages, then the map should look like

    Topic A
    Topic B
        Page 1
        Page 2
        Page 3
    Topic C

On the top-level index page, or on any other page that is neither a topic nor a subpage of a topic, the map should list only the topics.

Is there any way to do that?  I don't mind mucking around with `\[[!meta]]` on every page if that's what it takes.

-- Zack

> I think that you're looking for this:
> 
> `pages="((Topic*/* or Topic*) and ./*) or (Topic* and ! Topic*/*)"`
> 
> Let's pull that [[PageSpec]] apart. 
> 
> * `(Topic*/* or Topic*)` matches all pages that are underneath a Topic
>    page or are a topic page themselves.
> * `and ./*` further adds the limitation that the pages have to be
>   in the same directory as the page that is displaying the map. So,
>   for `Topic_A/Page_1`, it will match `Topic_A/*`; for `Topic_A`,
>   it will match `Topic_*` but not subpages.
> * Finally, `Topic* and ! Topic*/*` matches all the toplevel topic pages,
>   since we always want those to show up.
> 
> I haven't tested that this works or displays, but I hope it gets you
> on the right track. PS, be aware of
> [[this_sidebar_issue|todo/Post-compilation_inclusion_of_the_sidebar]]!
> --[[Joey]]

>> Thanks, but this assumes that topic pages are named `Topic<something>`.
>> They aren't.  They are tagged with `\[[!meta link="/topic"]]`, and as
>> far as I can tell there is no [[PageSpec]] notation for "subpages of a
>> page that satisfies link(foo)"...
>> -- Zack

>>> I think that the ideas and code in
>>> [[todo/tracking_bugs_with_dependencies]] might also handle this case.
>>> --[[Joey]]

----

I feel like this should be obvious, but I can't figure out how to sort numerically. 

I have `map pages="./* and !*/Discussion and !*/sidebar"`  and a bunch of pages with names like 1, 2, 3, 11, 12, 1/1.1, 12/12.3 etc. I want to sort them numerically. I see lots of conversation implying there's a simple way to do it, but not how.

> No, you can't: map can't currently use a non-default sort order. If it
> could, then you could use [[plugins/sortnaturally]]. There's a
> [[feature_request|todo/sort_parameter_for_map_plugin_and_directive]];
> [[a_bug_references_it|bugs/map_sorts_by_pagename_and_not_title_when_show=title_is_used]].
> --[[smcv]]
