with version 3.141592 I get
<pre>
HOME=/home/me /usr/bin/perl -Iblib/lib   ikiwiki.out -libdir . -dumpsetup ikiwiki.setup
Failed to load plugin IkiWiki::Plugin::inline: Can't use global $_ in "my" at IkiWiki/Plugin/inline.pm line 198, near "my $_"
Compilation failed in require at (eval 19) line 2.
BEGIN failed--compilation aborted at (eval 19) line 2.
</pre>

perl is 5.8.9

> This is fixed in 3.1415926. --[[Joey]] 


Hi!<br />
How can i upgrade my nearlyfreespeech installation of ikiwiki? To install it i have followed your instructions here.<br>
But now if I want to upgrade it to a newer version?<br />
Thanks for your incredible work!

> You can move `~/ikiwiki` out of the way and then re-download and install
> it ikiwiki. --[[Joey]]

Thanks a lot Joey. :-)

Hi

I installed version 3.20141016 as described, and it works mostly. However to get [[!iki plugins/sparkline]] to work properly I had to add

[[!format php """
set_include_path(get_include_path() . PATH_SEPARATOR . '/home/private/src/sparkline-php-0.2/lib');
require_once('/home/private/src/sparkline-php-0.2/lib/Sparkline_$style.php');
"""]]

to `sparkline.pm` around line 38. This is mostly likely because

1. I didn't install sparkline into php's default path.
1. I don't really know php.
1. I don't have the time (right now) to sort out the proper way to do this.

I also haven't sorted out how to make [[!iki plugins/openid]] or [[!iki ikiwiki/directive/format]] fully functional. I haven't researched either fully. -- james
