I would like to contribute a theme I created and posted on github:

[[https://github.com/AntPortal/ikiwiked]]

For an example of the theme in action, see: [[https://antportal.com/wiki/]]

> Shouldn't we just make people post their themes in the [[themes]] page? Or maybe we should make a [[theme market]]? --[[anarcat]]

> I did just that. -- [[anarcat]]

What is the process for merging a theme in Ikiwiki? It seems to me the
[[Bootstrap theme|http://www2.tblein.eu/posts/How_to_have_a_nice_design_for_ikiwiki/]]
could improve the options a lot... See the [[theme market]] for the
links to the actual theme. -- [[anarcat]]

> Step 1 is to not need two versions of page.tmpl to be maintained.
> This is, unfortunately, the reason why I have not pulled in the bootstrap
> theme yet. I recently made `<TMPL_IF THEME_$NAME>` be available,
> so the page.tmpl could use that to do different things if the boostrap
> theme was enabled. --[[Joey]]

>> Would you reconsider? I've made [[this bootstrap theme|/forum/bootstrap_theme]] that works within the theme plugin without changing the `templatedir` configuration option. It seems that the `page.tmpl` I have in the subfolder `templates` takes precedence. Not sure what you meant by "two versions of page.tmpl", though. -- [[desci]]

>>> The reason we don't want individual themes shipped with ikiwiki
>>> to have to include their own `page.tmpl` is that when we add new
>>> features (such as new plugins) to the ikiwiki core, if those features
>>> require a `page.tmpl` change, we don't want to have to add them to
>>> multiple variations of `page.tmpl`. This would either lead to
>>> increased maintenance work (repeating ourselves), or theme-dependent
>>> feature availability like what happens in Wordpress (for instance
>>> imagine if `osm` only worked with Bootstrap and `sidebar` only worked
>>> with Actiontabs - you wouldn't be able to have both).
>>>
>>> If you maintain your own local theme, you're welcome to maintain a
>>> version of `page.tmpl` containing only the features you personally
>>> need, but the `page.tmpl` in ikiwiki should be comprehensive. --[[smcv]]

>>>> I've tried to make the least changes possible in [this page.tmpl file](https://notabug.org/iikb/ikiwiki-theme-bootstrap/raw/master/templates/page.tmpl), but I couldn't overcome the suckness of bootstrap itself.
>>>> I am aware of alternatives to bootstrap, but it seems that every one of them would require some changes in the `page.tmpl` to work as expected.
>>>> I think it is realistic to have a bootstrap (or other superb, fantastic css frame*lazy*work) without a `page.tmpl`,
>>>> but I also think there should be other way around the chaos of each and every [[available theme|theme_market]] having it's own installing proccess.
>>>> Other argument I have is: could we have a theme-contrib, like the [[plugins]] have? This would require the mantainer to implement the new features in their themes.

---

I have a question.

Where should I put a custom theme other than `/usr/share/ikiwiki/themes/`?

I put `.pm` plugins on `~/.ikiwiki/Ikiwiki/Plugin` and it works well.

How would I go about not tampering with the root filesystem to install a theme?

Also, I have another question:

I have a complex theme I'm working on, and it doesn't even have a `style.css`, because it is about editing `.tmpl` files and relying on the bootstrap files, so I want to know if the theme plugin will understand this structure:

```
/usr/share/ikiwiki/themes/
└── my-theme/
    ├── basewiki/
    │   ├── bootstrap/
    │   │   ├── css/
    │   │   │   └── bootstrap.min.css
    │   │   ├── js/
    │   │   │   ├── bootstrap.js
    │   │   │   └── bootstrap.min.js
    │   │   └── fonts/
    │   │       ├── glyphicons-halflings-regular.eot
    │   │       ├── glyphicons-halflings-regular.svg
    │   │       ├── glyphicons-halflings-regular.ttf
    │   │       ├── glyphicons-halflings-regular.woff
    │   │       └── glyphicons-halflings-regular.woff2
    │   └── index.mdwn
    └── templates/
        ├── page.tmpl
        └── whatever.tmpl
```

**Edit:** no, it doesn't. When i change theme in the config to `my-theme`, the engine only uses the `templates` subfolder under `theme/my-theme`, and not `basewiki`. So the workaround is doing like [IkiStrap](https://github.com/gsliepen/ikistrap) proposed, suggesting the user to alter the `underlaydir` and `templatedir` configs instead of choosing a theme via the old fashioned `theme` config.

This feels more like an overhaul than a theme for me, could we clarify what is a theme, a template, an overhaul, a change to the look and feel, a change to the frontend, a change to the design, etc.?

-- [[desci]]
