Hi,

Can you give me a hint for showing if one user is logged or not. If user is logged, then I want to display the user name, as wikipedia or dokuwiki for example.
Regards,
Xan.

> ikiwiki doesn't serve pages, so this can't be done inside ikiwiki.
> For certain kinds of authentication it might be possible anyway.
> For instance, if you're using [[plugins/httpauth]] exclusively and
> your server has PHP, you could put `<?php print("$REMOTE_USER");
> ?>` in all the relevant ikiwiki [[templates]] and arrange for the
> generated HTML pages to get run through the PHP interpreter. The trick
> would work differently with other [[plugins/type/auth]] plugins,
> if at all. --[[Schmonz]]

>> Thanks a lot, Xan.

>>> Another possible trick would be to use some Javascript to make a
>>> "who am I?" AJAX request to the CGI (the CGI would receive the
>>> session cookie, if any, and be able to answer). Obviously, this
>>> wouldn't work for users who've disabled Javascript, but since it's
>>> non-essential, that's not so bad. You'd need to
>>> [[write_a_plugin|plugins/write]] to add a suitable CGI action,
>>> perhaps ?do=whoami, and insert the Javascript. --[[smcv]]

>>>> It's an idea, but you're trading off a serious speed hit for a very
>>>> minor thing. --[[Joey]]

>>>> Cool idea. A similar trick (I first saw it
>>>> [here](http://www.peej.co.uk/articles/http-auth-with-html-forms.html))
>>>> could be used to provide a [[plugins/passwordauth]]-like login form
>>>> for [[plugins/httpauth]]. --[[Schmonz]]

>>>>> I always assumed the entire reason someone might want to use the
>>>>> httpauth plugin is to avoid nasty site-specific login forms..
>>>>> --[[Joey]] 
