I am trying to use the attachment plugin, but it isn't working the way I expect.

I attempted to add a PDF as an attachment `dns_example.pdf` to a example_page (https://notes.example.org/wiki/MiscNotes/dns_docs_page).  The upload appears to happen, I can click the insert links button and links will be inserted into the page.  When I click the save-page button, the attachment does not appear to be attached.  No errors are displayed.

On the web server the attachment is at `$srcdir/.ikiwiki/attachments/MiscNotes/dns_docs_page/dns_example.pdf`, but doesn't get copied over to the `$destdir` folder at all.  I would expect that it should have been moved to `$srcdir/MiscNotes/dns_docs_page/dns_example.pdf` and added to the git repo, and then copied over to `$destdir`.  Am I missing some setting in my configuration or something?

Is this expected?  Is my file being rejected for some reason?  It is about 100k, which is under the value required by the `allowed_attachments`.  Is there some error logs somewhere that I look at to see more information about why this is failing?


    # wiki.setup
    ...
    # where the source of the wiki is located
    srcdir: /srv/www/notes.example.org/wiki/wiki.wc
    # where to build the wiki
    destdir: /srv/www/notes.example.org/wiki/www
    # base url to the wiki
    url: https://notes.example.org/wiki
    # url to the ikiwiki.cgi
    cgiurl: https://notes.example.org/wikicgi/ikiwiki.cgi
    # filename of cgi wrapper to generate
    cgi_wrapper: /srv/www/notes.example.org/wiki/cgi/ikiwiki.cgi
    # mode for cgi_wrapper (can safely be made suid)
    cgi_wrappermode: 06755
    # rcs backend to use
    rcs: git
    # plugins to add to the default configuration
    add_plugins:
    - httpauth
    - pagestats
    - attachment
    - 404
    - table
    - tag
    - map
    - search
    - repolist
    - brokenlinks
    - orphans
    - autoindex
    - meta
    - img
    - txt
    - template
    - theme
    ...
    # attachment plugin
    # enhanced PageSpec specifying what attachments are allowed
    allowed_attachments: maxsize(15mb)

