I am following the laptop wiki with git tip page. I have set up my local and remote wiki as suggested. However, when I try to push my local changes back to the server I get the following error:

Writing objects: 100% (4/4), 359 bytes, done.
Total 4 (delta 2), reused 0 (delta 0)
cannot write to /home/ian/ianbarton/.ikiwiki/commitlock: No such file or directory
To ian@wilkesley.org:~/ikiwiki/ianbarton.git
   5cf9054..16a871d  master -> master

The relevnt bit of my setup file is:

git_wrapper => '/home/ian/ianbarton.git/hooks/post-commit',

Now ~/ianbarton/.ikiwiki exists and is owned and writable by me. I have tried touching commitlock and also removing lock and commitlock before pushing. Any suggestions for further trouble shooting?

Ian.

> I'm guessing that this is some kind of permissions problem,
> and that the error message is just being misleading. 
> 
> When you push the changes to the server, what user is
> git logging into the server as? If that user is different
> than `ian` (possibly due to using git-daemon?), the post-commit
> wrapper needs to be setuid to `ian`. This ensures that ikiwiki
> runs as you and can see and write to the files. --[[Joey]] 

The user is logging as ian, the same user as the laptop. I can push and pull git repos on the same server owned by the same user via ssh with no problem. I have deleted and re-started from scratch several times. However, for my use case I think it's simpler to keep the repo on my local computer and just rsync the web pages to the server.

Ian.
