I'm trying to use ikiwiki for the first time. In the start, I had problems
with installing the package, because I don't have a root account on my
server.

When I solved this, I finally set up my wiki, but whenever I try to edit a
page, I get an error: “Error: bad page name”.

What am I doing wrong? The wiki is at
<http://atrey.karlin.mff.cuni.cz/~onderka/wiki/>, the setupfile I used at
<http://atrey.karlin.mff.cuni.cz/~onderka/wiki/ikiwiki.setup>.

> This means that one of the checks that ikiwiki uses to prevent
> editing files with strange or insecure names has fired incorrectly.
> Your setup file seems fine.
> We can figure out what is going wrong through a series of tests:
> 
> * Test if your perl has a problem with matching alphanumerics:
>   `perl -le 'print int "index"=~/^([-[:alnum:]+\/.:_]+)$/'`
> * Check if something is breaking pruning of disallowed files:
>   `perl -le 'use IkiWiki; %config=IkiWiki::defaultconfig(); print ! IkiWiki::file_pruned("index")'`
> --[[Joey]] 

>>Both seem to run fine:

    onderka@atrey:~$ perl -le 'print int "index"=~/^([-[:alnum:]+\/.:_]+)$/'
    1
    onderka@atrey:~$ perl -le 'use IkiWiki; %config=IkiWiki::defaultconfig(); print ! IkiWiki::file_pruned("index")'
    1

>>> Try installing this [instrumented
>>> version](http://kitenet.net/~joey/tmp/editpage.pm) of
>>> `IkiWiki/Plugin/editpage.pm`, which will add some debugging info
>>> to the error message. --[[Joey]] 

>>>>When I tried to `make` ikiwiki with this file, I got the error

    ../IkiWiki/Plugin/editpage.pm:101: invalid variable interpolation at "$"

>>>>> Sorry about that, I've corrected the above file. --[[Joey]] 

>>>>>> Hmm, funny. Now that I reinstalled it with your changed file, it started working. I didn't remember how exactly did I install it the last time, so this time, it seems I did it correctly. Thank you very much for your help.

>>>>>>> Well, this makes me suspect you installed an older version of
>>>>>>> ikiwiki and my file, which is from the latest version, included a
>>>>>>> fix for whatever bug you were seeing. If I were you, I'd ensure
>>>>>>> that I have a current version of ikiwiki installed. --[[Joey]] 
