As in title, how to align text to the right?

> Add to your local.css a class that aligns text to the right:

	.alignright { text-align: right; }

> And then you just just use `<span class="alignright">` around
> other html.
> 
> You can refine that, and allow right-aligning markdowned text
> by using the [[ikiwiki/directive/template]]
> directive, with a template that contains the html. The 
> [[templates/note]] template does something similar. --[[Joey]]

>> Thanks!

-----
<div class="notebox">
[[!format mdwn """
This is my text with [a markdown link](#).

Here's a *second* paragraph.
"""]]
</div>

> There is more than one way to do it. If [[plugins/format]] is enabled, then this:
>
>     <div class="notebox">
>     \[[!format mdwn """
>     This is my text with [a markdown link](#).
>
>     Here's a *second* paragraph.
>     """]]
>     </div>
>
> is rendered like the box in this page.
>
> (I'm using the `notebox` class used by the `note` template here, but you could
> use any class.) --[[smcv]]

-----
> Doing this myself and noted that [[ikiwiki/markdown]] down does not allow the enclosure of block level elements directly; and thus we cannot switch the `span` suggested above for `div` in changing block level elements (not if you wish to include markdown, anyway).  For example, I want to create a paragraph (with markdown text) which is right aligned, and so add the following

>>     <span class="right_align">
>>     This is my text with [a markdown link](/)
>>     </span>

> The *correct* thing to do here is create a template (as indicated above) **but** a workaround I found useful was to over-ride the `inline` nature of the `span` element, as follows

>>     .align_right { display: block ; text-align: right ; }

> you may also like to remove the padding and margins since they will be provided by the enclosing block. -- fergus
