I'm using the trail plugin with the actiontabs theme, and the prev/next links
seem to appear in a strange way on the page.

I use modified CSS, but it changes just the colors and some font sizes.
Nothing related to positions and trails.

Here's an example - the top prev/next links appear above the action tabs.
Is this normal? I'm using the ikiwiki version from Debian 7 stable.

- If you use OpenNIC: <http://www.partager.null/tools/systems/admin-guides/ssl/Preparing_the_Tools/>
- If you don't (will work only until the IP changes): <http://85.65.55.38/tools/systems/admin-guides/ssl/Preparing_the_Tools/>

I can look at the CSS and try to figure this out, but I don't know much CSS or
how the trail plugin works. If anyone uses trails, especially with actiontabs, and
can help me - it will be great.

Thanks in advance!

--[[fr33domlover]]

> I looked at the file *page.tmpl* and it seems I may be able to change
> the trail link location if I edit that file. Would it be a good/possible solution to
> edit it and put it in the git repo to be used instead of the default one?
>
> --[[fr33domlover]]

>> That's how I intended trails to look with actiontabs:
>> <http://actiontabs.hosted.pseudorandom.co.uk/posts/second_post/> is
>> another example.
>>
>> With the way the actiontabs theme works, if you want to move the
>> trail bits down into the content area (white background in the
>> unedited theme) you might have to alter both `page.tmpl`
>> and the actiontabs CSS. You'll see that the actiontabs CSS
>> has a special case for trails, because the tabs and the trail
>> links would overlap otherwise - you might have to remove
>> that special case. --[[smcv]]

>>> Thanks, I'll try that. But I've been using those trails in the last
>>> several hours and I'm beginning to get used to the current
>>> layout. Maybe I'll just keep it :-)
>>>
>>> (Anyway the way trail links look on my wiki is valid, it's exactly
>>> like on your link, only with different colors. I suppose it's
>>> just a cosmetic issue then)
>>>
>>> --[[fr33domlover]]
