The `album` directive is supplied by the [[!iki plugins/contrib/album desc=album]] plugin.

Each page containing an `album` directive is treated as a photo album
or image gallery. Example usage is as simple as:

    \[[!album]]

Every image attached to an album or its [[subpages|ikiwiki/subpage]] is
considered to be part of the album. A "viewer" page, with the wiki's default
page extension, will be generated in the
[[transient underlay|plugins/transient]] to display the
image, if there isn't already a page of the same name as the image: for
instance, if `debconf` is an album and `debconf/tuesday/p100.jpg` exists,
then `debconf/tuesday/p100.mdwn` might be created.

The album is treated as a [[!iki plugins/contrib/trail desc=trail]], which
gives each viewer page a link back to the album, and a link to the previous
and next viewer in the album.

The `album` directive also produces an [[ikiwiki/directive/inline]] which
automatically includes all the viewers for this album, except those that
will appear in an [[albumsection]]. If every image in the album is in a
section, then the `album` directive is still required, but won't produce
any output in the page.

The `inline` can include some extra information about the images, including
file size and a thumbnail made using [[ikiwiki/directive/img]]). The
default template is `albumitem.tmpl`, which takes advantage of these things.

## Options

The directive can have some options for the entire album. The defaults are:

    \[[!album
      sort="-age"
      size="full"
      thumbnailsize="96x96"
      viewertemplate="albumviewer"
      prevtemplate="albumprev"
      nexttemplate="albumnext"

* `sort` - sets the order in which images appear, defaulting to earliest
  creation date first
* `size` - if not `full`, the [[ikiwiki/directive/img]] in the viewer page
  will be resized to be no larger than this
* `thumbnailsize` - the [[ikiwiki/directive/img]] in the album page,
  which can also be used in the previous/next links, will be no larger than
  this
* `viewertemplate` - the template used for the [[albumimage]] in each
  viewer page
* `prevtemplate` - the template used to replace `<TMPL_VAR PREV>` if used in
  the viewer page
* `nexttemplate` - the template used to replace `<TMPL_VAR NEXT>` if used in
  the viewer page

[[!meta robots="noindex, follow"]]
