This MoinMoin converter converts wikis to ikiwikis backed by a git repository, including full history. It simply parses the wiki pages into markdown using the MoinMoin engine.

The converter was originally written by [[JoshTriplett]] and included support for Tikiwiki, for which it parses the wiki pages to HTML then back into markdown using the `libhtml-wikiconverter` Perl package. That original version from Josh is still available from [his wiki page](/users/JoshTriplett). 

The MoinMoin side of things was completely re-written by [[anarcat]] and is currently still in development. That version is available at:

    git clone git://src.anarcat.ath.cx/moin2iki

It doesn't feature support to migrate from Tikiwiki anymore and focuses on MoinMoin support.

The software is made of two pieces:

 * the importer (`moin2git`) - which converts the wiki pages into a git repository with full history
 * the converter (`moin2mdwn`) - which converts a set of moin-formatted text files into markdown + ikiwiki directives

## MoinMoin importer features

 * supports latest MoinMoin versions (tested with 1.9.x)
 * uses `git fast-import` to improve performance (10 minutes and 200M of ram for a 7 years old 2GB Moinmoin wiki)
 * multistep process allows bulk edit through git before markdown conversion, or staying with a 
 * imports attachments as subpages
 * uses the per-page edit log
 * consistent: multiple runs will generate the same repository
 * re-entrant: can be run multiple times to import new changes

## MoinMoin converter features

 * lots of macros are not translated
 * a bunch of markup and exotic uses of parsers will probably fail? 

## MoinMoin features missing from ikiwiki

The importer is pretty much complete, but the converter can only go so far as what features ikiwiki supports. Here are the MoinMoin features that are known to be missing from ikiwiki. Note that some of those features are available in MoinMoin only through third-party extensions.

 * [[todo/do_not_make_links_backwards/]] - MoinMoin and Creole use `\[[link|text]]`, while ikiwiki uses `\[[text|link]]` - for now the converter generates [[markdown]] links so this is not so much an issue, but will freak out users
 * [[todo/internal_definition_list_support/]] - includes tabling the results ([MoinMoin's DictColumns macro](http://moinmo.in/MacroMarket/DictColumns))
 * [[todo/per page ACLs]] - ([MoinMoin's ACLs](http://moinmo.in/HelpOnAccessControlLists))
 * more to be documented here

Comments and feedback always welcome! --[[anarcat]]
