[[!template id=plugin name=cvs core=0 author="[[schmonz]]"]]

[[!template id=gitbranch branch=schmonz author="[[schmonz]]"]]

This plugin allows ikiwiki to use [[!wikipedia desc="CVS" Concurrent Versions System]] as an [[rcs]].

### Usage
7. Install [cvsps](http://www.cobite.com/cvsps/), [[!cpan
File::ReadBackwards]], and
[cvsweb](http://www.freebsd.org/projects/cvsweb.html) or the like.
7. Adjust CVS-related parameters in your setup file.

Consider creating `$HOME/.cvsrc` if you don't have one already; the plugin doesn't need it, but you yourself might. Here's a good general-purpose one:

    cvs -q
    checkout -P
    update -dP
    diff -u
    rdiff -u

### Implementation details
* `cvs.pm` started life as a copy of [[3.14159|news/version_3.14159]]'s `svn.pm`.
* `IkiWiki.pm:wiki_file_prune_regexps` avoids copying CVS metadata
into `$DESTDIR`.
* `IkiWiki/Wrapper.pm` provides a new "wrapperargcheck" hook, which
the plugin implements to avoid calling ikiwiki from post-commit
(and locking against itself) if it's a directory being `cvs add`ed.
* [[ikiwiki-makerepo]]:
 * creates a repository,
 * imports `$SRCDIR` into top-level module `ikiwiki` (vendor tag IKIWIKI, release tag PRE_CVS),
 * configures the post-commit hook in `CVSROOT/loginfo`.
* CVS multi-directory commits happen separately; the post-commit hook sees only the first directory's changes in time for [[recentchanges|plugins/recentchanges]]. The next run of `ikiwiki --setup` will correctly re-render such a recentchanges entry. It should be possible to solve this problem with NetBSD's `commit_prep` and `log_accum` scripts (see below).

### To do
* Instead of resource-intensively scraping changesets with `cvsps`, have `ikiwiki-makerepo` set up NetBSD-like `log_accum` and `commit_prep` scripts that coalesce and keep records of commits. `cvsps` can be used as a fallback for repositories without such records.
* Perhaps prevent web edits from attempting to create `.../CVS/foo.mdwn` (and `.../cvs/foo.mdwn` on case-insensitive filesystems); thanks to the CVS metadata directory, the attempt will fail anyway (and much more confusingly) if we don't.
