[[!template id=plugin name=copyright author="[[tschwinge]]"]]
[[!template id=plugin name=license author="[[tschwinge]]"]]

[[!meta title="default content for *copyright* and *license*"]]

Someone was just asking for it and I had written these two plugins already some months ago,
so I'm now publishing them here.

[`copyright.pm`](http://git.savannah.gnu.org/cgit/hurd/web.git/plain/.library/IkiWiki/Plugin/copyright.pm)
and
[`license.pm`](http://git.savannah.gnu.org/cgit/hurd/web.git/plain/.library/IkiWiki/Plugin/license.pm)

Usage instructions are found inside the two plugin files.

--[[tschwinge]]

I was asking about this in IRC the other day, but someone pointed me at the
[[Varioki|todo/varioki_--_add_template_variables___40__with_closures_for_values__41___in_ikiwiki.setup]]
plugin. It seems to me that it would be a better idea to have a way of defining
template variables in general, rather than having to add a new plugin for every
template variable somebody wants to use.

--[[bma]]

Copyright and license values are not "template values", they are values
tracked by the [[meta]] plugin, and that various code compares and uses to fill
out the templates. Something like varioki cannot do that. --[[Joey]]

Somewhat more detailed usage documentation would be appreciated. I tried to setup
those plugins with a current ikiwiki release, i.e. 2.61, but they appeared to do
nothing, really. Also, those example pages don't seem to use those plugins, even;
they set "copyright" and "license" properties using ordinary [[meta]] tags. Maybe
I'm missing something terribly obvious? --Peter

> Only obvious if you read the source :-). You need to put a file named "copyright.html"
>(respectively "license.html") in your wiki. Everything underneath that (in the wikilink sense) will use that
>content for the license or copyright. Saves putting \[[meta license="foo"]] in every page [[DavidBremner]]

By the way: these need not be *HTML* files; `copyright.mdwn`,
respectively `license.mdwn`, or every other format supported
by ikiwiki are likewise fine.  --[[tschwinge]]

> Jon has done something similar in [[todo/allow_site-wide_meta_definitions]];
> his version has the advantages that it doesn't invent magical page names,
> and can extend beyond just copyright and license, but has the disadvantage
> that it doesn't support setting defaults for a given "subdirectory"
> only. --[[smcv]]

> I downloaded the two *.pm files and made them executable, and put in 
> `$ ls /usr/local/lib/site_perl/IkiWiki/Plugin/` and added `copyright.mdwn` and `license.mdwn` 
> and rebuilt the wiki, but the copyright/license text doesn't show up. Does these plugin work with Ikiwiki `3.20100815`?
> -- 9unmetal

>> Solved by email long ago; the problem was that the user had not put them
>> into the *add_plugins* set in the wiki's `ikiwiki.setup`.  --[[tschwinge]]

[[!template id=gitbranch branch=smcv/contrib/defcopyright author="[[tschwinge]]"]]

> For `./gitremotes` convenience (taking the Linus approach to backups :-) )
> I've added this to my git repository as a branch. No review, approval or
> ownership is implied, feel free to replace this with a branch in any other
> repository --[[smcv]]
