The plugin depends on [[mdwn]].  If you have
disabled [[mdwn]], to get [[shortcut]] work, you need
commit in a shortcuts.ext (ext is `rcs|creole|html|txt|etc`),
and edit/patch [[shortcut]].

Maybe use the `default_pageext` is better than hardcode .mdwn?

--[[weakish]]

> done, it will use `default_pageext` now --[[Joey]] 

---

Instead of modifying the [[basewiki]]'s [[shortcuts]] file for local needs --
thus copying it at some point and losing continuity with upstream enhancements --
what about handling a `shortcuts-local.mdwn` or `shortcuts/local.mdwn` (if such
a file exists in the wiki), and additionally process that one.  Possibily a
conditional `\[[!inline]]` could be used.  --[[tschwinge]]

----

The page says

> Additionally, %W is replaced with the text encoded just right for Wikipedia

with the implication that this is odd. However, it appears the escapes
actually mean:

=%s=
    If every character in the string is in the Latin-1 range, encode each
    character as a http %xx escape: ö -> %F6. If not,
    mangle the string: ☃ (U+2603 SNOWMAN) -> %2603 which
    actually means "&03".
=%S=
    Leave the string as-is.
=%W=
    Encode the string as UTF-8, then encode each byte of the UTF-8
    individually as a http %xx escape: ö -> %C3%B6, ☃ (U+2603 SNOWMAN) ->
    %E2%98%83.

http %xx encoding is defined in terms of input bytes, not input characters,
so you can't encode arbitrary Unicode into URLs without knowing which
encoding the destination server is going to use. UTF-8 is what's
recommended by the [[!wikipedia Internationalized resource identifier]]
specification, so I suspect %W is right more often than it's wrong...

I wonder whether %s should mean what %W does now, with a new format
character - maybe %L for Latin-1? - for the version that only works
for strings that can be encoded losslessly in Latin-1? --[[smcv]]
