First, thanks again for making this plugin.

I don't know if this is a problem for [[plugins/attachment]], but there seems to
be no way to detect text/plain using File::MimeInfo::Magic::magic().
There is a heuristic ::default that decides between text/plain and application/octet-stream.  

Would you be receptive to a patch that e.g. called File::MimeInfo::Magic::default()
if ::magic() returns undef?  --[[DavidBremner]]

> Yes, that looks to be ok. --[[Joey]]

>> OK, here is such a patch. One modification of previous behaviour is that 
>> that if default returns undef, this is returned. As far as I understand
>> the code/doc for File::MimeInfo, under is used only as an error return
>> for ::default

>>> Applied

---

At first I need to thank you for ikiwiki - it is what I was always looking
for - coming from a whole bunch of wiki engines, this is the most
intelligent and least bloated one.

My question is about the [[plugins/attachment]] plugin in conjunction with
[[plugins/filecheck]]: I am using soundmanger2 js-library for having
attached media files of all sorts played inline a page. 

To achieve this soundmanager2 asks for an id inside a ul-tag surrounding
the a-tag. I was wondering if the Insert Link button could be provided with
a more elegant solution than to have this code snippet to be filled in by
hand every time you use it to insert links for attached media files. And in
fact there apparently is a way in attachment.pm. 

While I can see that it is not needed for everyone inserting links to
attached media files to have ul- and li-tags surrounding the link itself as
well as being supplied with an id fill in, for me it would be the most
straight forward solution. Pitty is I don't have the time to wrap my head
around perl to write a patch myself.  Is there any way to have this made an
option which can be called via templates?

For sure I would like to donate for such a patch as well as I will do it
for ikiwiki anyway, because it is such a fine application.

If you are not familiar with soundmanager2: It is a very straight forward
solution to inline mediafiles, using the usual flash as well as html5
solutions (used by soundcloud.com, freesound.org and the like). Worth a
look anyway [schillmania.com](http://www.schillmania.com/)

Boris

> The behavior of "Insert Links" is currently hardcoded to support images
> and has a fallback for other files. What you want is a 
> [[todo/generic_insert_links]] that can insert a template directive.
> Then you could make a template that generates the html needed for
> soundmanager2. I've written down a design at
> [[todo/generic_insert_links]]; I am currently very busy and not sure
> when I will get around to writing it, but with it on the todo list
> I shouldn't forget. --[[Joey]] 
> 
> You could make a [[ikiwiki/directive/template]] for soundmanager2
> now, and manually insert the template directive for now
> when you want to embed a sound file. Something like this:

	\[[!template id=embed_mp3 file=your.mp3]]

> Then in templates/embed_mp3.mdwn, something vaguely like this:

	<ul id="foo">
	<a href="<TMPL_VAR FILE>">mp3</a>
	</ul>

>> Thanks a lot - looking forward to [[todo/generic_insert_links]] - I am using the [[ikiwiki/directive/template]] variant also adding a name vaiable, it looks like this and is working fine:

        <ul class="playlist">
        <li>
        <a href="<TMPL_VAR FILE>"><TMPL_VAR NAME></a>
        </li>
        </ul>

>> Calling it: 

        \[[!template id=embedmedia.tmpl file=../Tinas_Gonna_Have_A_Baby.mp3 name="Tina's Gonna Have A Baby" ]]

>> BTW your Flattr button doesn't seem to work properly - or it is Flattr itself that doesn't- clicking it won't let ikiwiki show up on my Dashboard.
