I believe the `trail3-integrated` and `trail3-prebuild` branches address
Joey's review comments from IRC:

> 06-12-2011 19:01:07 <joeyh>: ok, light review finished. so, if you want
> to make a branch with inline trail=yes, and perhaps also adding a hook
> so you don't need to inject, I think I can merge it right away

I haven't published instructions for using this version as a
standalone plugin, because it needs core and inline changes.

Commits up to 63bb8b42 make the trail plugin better-integrated,
including `\[[!inline trail=yes]]`. 63bb8b42 is the commit to
merge if you don't like the design of my hooks.

Commit 24168b99 adds a `build_affected` hook, run at about the
same time as `render_backlinks`, and uses it to render the
extra pages. This removes the need for `trail` to inject
anything. In principle, backlinks etc. could use this hook
too, if they weren't core.

Commit d0dea308 on the `trail3-prebuild` branch adds a
`prebuild` hook, which runs after everything has been scanned
but before anything is rendered. This removes the need
for `trail` to run its old `prerender` function in its
render hooks (preprocess, pagetemplate etc.) to collate
metadata before it renders anything. However, I'm not sure
that this is really the right thing to do, which is why it's
in its own branch: the `prebuild` hook is a lot like
`needsbuild` (but later), so it's called even if no trail
or trail member has actually been edited.

For it to be useful for `trail`, the `prebuild` hook has to run
after both pagespecs and sorting work. The other use case
I've seen for a similar hook was for Guiseppe Bilotta to
sort an inline-of-inlines by mtime of newest post, but that
can't be the same hook, because it has to run after pagespecs
work, but before sorting.

--[[smcv]]
