The `calendar` directive is supplied by the [[!iki plugins/calendar desc=calendar]] plugin.

This directive displays a calendar, similar to the typical calendars shown on
some blogs.

# examples

	\[[!calendar ]]

	\[[!calendar type="month" pages="blog/* and !*/Discussion"]]

	\[[!calendar type="year" year="2005" pages="blog/* and !*/Discussion"]]

## setup

The calendar is essentially a fancy front end to archives of previous
pages, usually used for blogs. It can produce a calendar for a given month,
or a list of months for a given year. The month format calendar simply
links to any page posted on each day of the month. The year format calendar
links to archive pages, with names like `archives/2007` (for all of 2007)
and `archives/2007/01` (for January, 2007).

While you can insert calendar directives anywhere on your wiki, including
in the sidebar, you'll also need to create these archive pages. They
typically use this directive to display a calendar, and also use [[inline]]
to display or list pages created in the given time frame.

## Generating archive pages

If [[option|plugins/calendar]] `calendar_autocreate` is not set, the
[[ikiwiki-calendar]] command can be used to automatically generate the archive
pages. It also refreshes the wiki, updating the calendars to highlight the
current day. This command is typically run at midnight from cron.

An example crontab:

    0 0 * * * ikiwiki-calendar ~/ikiwiki.setup "posts/* and !*/Discussion"


With [[setup option|plugins/calendar]] `calendar_autocreate`, all this work is
done by `ikiwiki` itself. Thus, the crontab command can be replaced by:

    0 0 * * * ikiwiki --setup ~/ikiwiki.setup --refresh

## usage

* `type` - Used to specify the type of calendar wanted. Can be one of
  "month" or "year". The default is a month view calendar.
* `pages` - Specifies the [[ikiwiki/PageSpec]] of pages to link to from the
  month calendar. Defaults to "*".
* `archivebase` - Configures the base of the archives hierarchy. 
  The default is "archives". Note that this default can also be overridden
  for the whole wiki by setting `archivebase` in ikiwiki's setup file.
  Calendars link to pages under here, with names like "2010/04" and
  "2010". These pages can be automatically created using the
  `calendar_autocreate` [[setup option|plugins/calendar]].
* `year` - The year for which the calendar is requested. Defaults to the
  current year. Can also use -1 to refer to last year, and so on.
* `month` - The numeric month for which the calendar is requested, in the
  range 1..12. Used only for the month view calendar, and defaults to the
  current month. Can also use -1 to refer to last month, and so on.
* `week_start_day` - A number, in the range 0..6, which represents the day
  of the week that the month calendar starts with. 0 is Sunday, 1 is Monday,
  and so on. Defaults to 0, which is Sunday.
* `months_per_row` - In the year calendar, number of months to place in
  each row. Defaults to 3.

[[!meta robots="noindex, follow"]]
