The `comment` directive is supplied by the
[[!iki plugins/comments desc=comments]] plugin. There should
be one comment directive in each source file with extension
`._comment` or `._comment_pending`, and the directive should not
appear anywhere else. Comments are normally created via the web,
in which case ikiwiki automatically creates a suitable
`._comment` file.

Wiki administrators can also commit comment files to the version
control system directly: they should be named starting with
the *comments\_pagename* config option (usually `comment_`)
and ending with `._comment`, for instance `comment_42._comment`.

Example:

	\[[!comment format=mdwn
	username="foo"
	subject="Bar"
	date="2009-06-02T19:05:01Z"
	content="""
	Blah blah.
	"""
	]]

## usage

The only required parameter is `content`, the others just add or override
metadata for the comment. Many parameters are shortcuts for [[meta]]
directives.

* `content` - Text to display for the comment.
  Note that [[directives|ikiwiki/directive]]
  may not be allowed, depending on the configuration
  of the comment plugin.
* `format` - Specifies the markup used for the content.
* `subject` - Subject for the comment.
* `date` - Date the comment was posted. Can be entered in
  nearly any format, since it's parsed by [[!cpan TimeDate]]
* `username` - Used to record the username (or OpenID)
  of a logged in commenter.
* `nickname` - Name to display for a logged in commenter.
  (Optional; used for OpenIDs.)
* `ip` - Can be used to record the IP address of a commenter,
  if they posted anonymously.
* `claimedauthor` - Records the name that the user entered,
  if anonymous commenters are allowed to enter their (unverified)
  name.

[[!meta robots="noindex, follow"]]
