The `pagestats` directive is supplied by the [[!iki plugins/pagestats desc=pagestats]] plugin.

This directive can generate stats about how pages link to each other. It can
produce either a tag cloud, or a table counting the number of links to each
page.

Here's how to use it to create a [[tag]] cloud, with tags sized based
on frequency of use:

	\[[!pagestats pages="tags/*"]]

Here's how to create a list of tags, sized by use as they would be in a
cloud.
	
	\[[!pagestats style="list" pages="tags/*"]]

And here's how to create a table of all the pages on the wiki:

	\[[!pagestats style="table"]]

The optional `among` parameter limits the pages whose outgoing links are
considered. For instance, to display a cloud of tags used on blog
entries, while ignoring other pages that use those tags, you could use:

	\[[!pagestats pages="tags/*" among="blog/posts/*"]]

Or to display a cloud of tags related to Linux, you could use:

	\[[!pagestats pages="tags/* and !tags/linux" among="tagged(linux)"]]

The optional `limit` parameter limits display to the specified number of
pages. For instance, to show a table of the top ten pages with the most
links:

	\[[!pagestats style="table" limit="10"]]

In older versions of IkiWiki this parameter was called `show`;
that name still works, if its value is numeric.

The optional `class` parameter can be used to control the class
of the generated tag cloud `div` or page stats `table`.

By default, the names of pages are shown. The `show` parameter
can be used (with a non-numeric value) to show the titles or descriptions
of pages instead (as set by the [[meta]] directive). For example:

	\[[!pagestats pages="tags/*" show="title"]]

[[!meta robots="noindex, follow"]]
