The `table` directive is supplied by the [[!iki plugins/table desc=table]] plugin.

This directive can build HTML tables from data in CSV (comma-separated values)
or DSV (delimiter-separated values) format.

## examples

	\[[!table data="""
	Customer |Amount
	Fulanito |134,34
	Menganito|234,56
	Menganito|234,56
	"""]]
    
	\[[!table class="book_record" format=csv file="data/books/record1"]]

In this second example the `record1` page should be similar to:

	"Title","Perl Best Practices"
	"Author","Damian Conway"
	"Publisher","O’Reilly"

To make a cell span multiple columns, follow it with one or more empty
cells. For example:

	\[[!table data="""
	left||right|
	a|b|c|d
	this cell spans **4** columns|||
	"""]]

## usage

* `data` - Values for the table.
* `file` - A file in the wiki containing the data.
* `format` - The format of the data, either "csv", "dsv", or "auto"
  (the default).
* `delimiter` - The character used to separate fields. By default,
   DSV format uses a pipe (`|`), and CSV uses a comma (`,`).
* `class` - A CSS class for the table html element.
* `header` - By default, or if set to "row", the first data line is used
  as the table header. Set it to "no" to make a table without a header, or
  "column" to make the first column be the header.

For tab-delimited tables (often obtained by copying and pasting from HTML
or a spreadsheet), `delimiter` must be set to a literal tab character. These
are difficult to type in most web browsers - copying and pasting one from
the table data is likely to be the easiest way.

Note that the contents of table cells can contain arbitrary ikiwiki and
markdown markup.

[[!meta robots="noindex, follow"]]
