[[!template id=plugin name=blogspam author="[[Joey]]"]]
[[!tag type/auth type/comments]]

This plugin adds antispam support to ikiwiki, using the
[blogspam.net](http://blogspam.net/) API. Both page edits and
[[comment|comments]] postings can be checked for spam. Page edits that
appear to contain spam will be rejected; comments that look spammy will be
stored in a queue for moderation by an admin.

To check for and moderate comments, log in to the wiki as an admin,
go to your Preferences page, and click the "Comment Moderation" button.

The plugin requires the [[!cpan RPC::XML]] perl module.

You can control how content is tested via the `blogspam_options` setting.
The list of options is [here](http://blogspam.net/api/1.0/testComment.html#options).
By default, the options are configured in a way that is appropriate for
wiki content. This includes turning off some of the more problematic tests.
An interesting option for testing is `fail`, by setting it (e.g.,
`blogspam_options => 'fail'`), *all* comments will be marked as SPAM, so that
you can check whether the interaction with blogspam.net works.

The `blogspam_pagespec` setting is a [[ikiwiki/PageSpec]] that can be
used to configure which pages are checked for spam. The default is to check
all edits. If you only want to check [[comments]] (not wiki page edits),
set it to "postcomment(*)". Posts by admins are never checked for spam.

By default, the blogspam.net server is used to do the spam checking. To
change this, the `blogspam_server` option can be set to the url for a
different server implementing the same API. Note that content is sent
unencrypted over the internet to the server, and the server sees
the full text of the content.
