## Alt explanation/instructions
For whatever reason, I found the info on the dot cgi page very confusing.  The instructions on [[http://maketecheasier.com/install-and-configure-apache-in-ubuntu/2011/03/09]] were a lot easier to follow, and ultimately got me over the ubuntu-apache hump.

## warning: lighttpd only or both?

Is your warning at the bottom (you don't know how secure it is) only about
lighttpd or it's about apache2 configuration as well?

> The latter. (Although I don't know why using lighttpd would lead
> to any additional security exposure anyway.) --[[Joey]] 

I'm asking this because right now I want to setup an httpd solely for the
public use of ikiwiki on a general purpose computer (there are other things
there), and so I need to choose the more secure solution. --Ivan Z.

> AFAIU, my main simplest security measure should be running the public
> ikiwiki's cgi under a special user, but then: how do I push to the repo
> owned by that other user? I see, probably I should setup the public wiki
> under the special user (so that it was able to create the cgi-script with
> the desired permission), and then give my personal user the required
> permissions to make a git-push by, say, creating a special Unix group for
> this.

> Shouldn't there be a page here which would document a secure public and
> multi-user installation of ikiwiki (by "multi-user" I mean writable by a
> group of local Unix users)? If there isn't such yet, I started writing it
> with this discussion.--Ivan Z.

> I see, perhaps a simpler setup would not make use of a Unix group, but
> simply allow pushing to the public wiki (kept under a special user) through
> git+ssh. --Ivan Z.

>> Yes, it's certianly possible to configure git (and svn, etc) repositories so that
>> two users can both push to them. There should be plenty of docs out there
>> about doing that.
>> 
>> The easiest way though is probably
>> to add your ssh key to the special user's `.ssh/authorized_keys`
>> and push that way. --[[Joey]] 

## apache2 - run from userdir
Followed instructions but couldn't get it right to run from user dir (running ubuntu jaunty),  
Finally got it working once I've sym linked as follow (& restarted apache):    
\# ln -s ../mods-available/userdir.load .  
\# ln -s ../mods-available/userdir.conf .  
\# pwd  
/etc/apache2/mods-enabled  


