## Kalle Söderman

Websites using ikiwiki: 

* <http://kalleswork.net>
* <http://img.kalleswork.net>
* <http://stockholm.kalleswork.net>

Mostly using ikiwiki with tweaked versions of the [[/plugins/contrib/album/]] and [[plugins/osm]]
plugins. 

The main changes I've done are the following

* How you browse through the images. The interface i simplified and you click
the image to view the next rather than download it.
* Added separate download link for full resolution image unless size is set to
full in the album directive.
* Extract metadata from exif/xmp data in the image according to preexisting
pattern in the album plugin. This was done using
[Image::ExifTool](http://www.sno.phy.queensu.ca/~phil/exiftool/ExifTool.html)
* Autogenerate [[ikiwiki/directive/tag/]]s from exif:Subject if possible.
* Use the albumitem template to create tag pages with thumbnails.
* Additional albumpreview template which allows you to define a thumbnail that
link to the album. Useful for visual index of albums.
* Extract GPS data and populate a [[plugins/osm]] waypoint if available.
* Add span around osm icon to allow for styling.

For my public websites above have been using the tweaked img plugin for many years now. It works well except when deleting images, this seems to require a removal of the indexdb and a rebuild... not very convenient. My websites have about 3500 images each and takes almost 15min to rebuild but this is not really an issue for my usage.


*I can't code (clone my repo above if you don't believe me!) so noone should
run my code without checking it first.* I can't stress this enough.

### Git branches/repos

[[!table  data="""
Description | branch/repository
Repo with only my tweaked files to be installed as third party plugins via `libdir`. See [[plugins/install]] for info howto install. | [[!template id=gitbranch branch=kjs/ikiplugs author="kjs"]]
Branch where all my changes are kept in the ikiwiki tree the ikiwiki running kalleswork.net: | [[!template id=gitbranch branch=kjs/kalleswork author="kjs"]]
Branch with only the changes to the [[plugins/img]] plugin: | [[!template id=gitbranch branch=kjs/kjsimg author="kjs"]]
Branch with only the changes to the [[plugins/contrib/album]] plugin: | [[!template id=gitbranch branch=kjs/kjsalbum author="kjs"]]
Branch with only my simplebw [[themes]] designed for the above plugins: | [[!template id=gitbranch branch=kjs/kjs-simplebw-theme author="kjs"]]
Branch with only minor tweaks to standard ikiwiki templates: | [[!template id=gitbranch branch=kjs/kjsadjust author="kjs"]]
"""]]
