# NAME

ikiwiki-calendar - create calendar archive pages

# SYNOPSIS

ikiwiki-calendar [-f] your.setup [pagespec] [startyear [endyear]]

# DESCRIPTION

`ikiwiki-calendar` creates pages that use the [[ikiwiki/directive/calendar]]
directive, allowing the archives to be browsed one month
at a time, with calendar-based navigation.

You must specify the setup file for your wiki. The pages will
be created inside its `srcdir`, beneath the `archivebase`
directory used by the calendar plugin (default "archives").

To control which pages are included on the calendars,
a [[ikiwiki/PageSpec]] can be specified. The default is
all pages, or the pages specified by the `comments_pagespec`
setting in the config file. A pagespec can also be specified
on the command line. To limit it to only posts in a blog,
use something like "posts/* and !*/Discussion".

It defaults to creating calendar pages for the current
year. If you specify a year, it will create pages for that year.
Specify a second year to create pages for a span of years.

Existing pages will not be overwritten by this command by default.
Use the `-f` switch to force it to overwrite any existing pages.

# CRONTAB

While this command only needs to be run once a year to update
the archive pages for each new year, you are recommended to set up
a cron job to run it daily, at midnight. Then it will also update
the calendars to highlight the current day.

An example crontab:

	0 0 * * * ikiwiki-calendar ~/ikiwiki.setup 'posts/* and !*/Discussion'

# TEMPLATES

This command uses two [[templates]] to generate
the pages, `calendarmonth.tmpl` and `calendaryear.tmpl`.

# AUTHOR

Joey Hess <joey@ikiwiki.info>

Warning: this page is automatically made into ikiwiki-calendar's man page, edit with care
