This is the roadmap for ikiwiki development.

# 1.0

* No severe [[security]] bugs.
* All the basic [[features]] people would expect in a wiki.

Released 29 April 2006.

The 1.X series is no longer supported.

----

# 2.0

* New improved URLs to pages via `usedirs`.
* [[plugins/OpenID]] support, enabled by default.
* Plugin [[interface|plugins/write]] added, with some 60 [[plugins]] available,
  greatly expanding the capabilities of ikiwiki.
* [[Tags]], atom feeds, and generally full-fledged blogging support.
* Fully working [[todo/utf8]].
* Optimisations, approximately 3.5 times as fast as version 1.0.
* Improved scalability to large numbers of pages.
* Improved scalable [[logo]].
* Support for additional revision control systems besides svn: git,
  tla, mercurial.
* Some support for other markup languages than markdown: rst, textile.
* Unit test suite, with more than 300 tests.

Released 30 April 2007.

The 2.x series is now in maintenance mode. Only security fixes and fixes for
really bad bugs will be applied going forward.

----

# 3.0

Version 3.0 is an opportunity to make significant transitions.
Read [[tips/upgrade_to_3.0]] for the steps you will need to
follow when upgrading your wiki to this version.

The highlights of the changes in version 3.0 include:

* Support for uploading [[attachments|plugins/attachment]].
* Can [[plugins/rename]] and [[plugins/remove]] pages and files via the web.
* [[Web_based_setup|plugins/websetup]].
* Blog-style [[plugins/comments]] as an alternative to Discussion pages.
* Many other new plugins including [[plugins/htmlbalance]], [[plugins/format]],
  [[plugins/progress]], [[plugins/color]], [[plugins/autoindex]],
  [[plugins/cutpaste]], [[plugins/hnb]], [[plugins/creole]], [[plugins/txt]],
  [[plugins/amazon_s3]], [[plugins/pinger]], [[plugins/pingee]],
  [[plugins/edittemplate]]
* The RecentChanges page is compiled statically, not generated from the CGI.
* Support for additional revision control systems: [[rcs/bzr]],
  [[rcs/monotone]]
* Support for [[tips/untrusted_git_push]].
* A new version (3.00) of the plugin API, exporting additional
  commonly used functions from `IkiWiki.pm`.
* Nearly everything in ikiwiki is now a plugin, from WikiLinks to page
  editing, to RecentChanges.
* Far too many bug fixes, features, and enhancements to list here.

Released 31 December, 2008.

The 3.x series is expected to undergo continuing development for some time,
adding improvements and new features, but avoiding changes that break
backwards compatibility.

----

# compatibility breaking changes

Probably incomplete list:

* Drop old `--getctime` option.
* Remove compatibility code in `loadindex` to handle old index data layouts.
* Make pagespecs match relative by default? (see [[discussion]])
* Flip wikilinks? (see [[todo/link_plugin_perhaps_too_general?]] and [[todo/do_not_make_links_backwards]])
* Enable tagbase by default (so that tag autocreation will work by default).
  Note that this is already done for wikis created by `auto-blog.setup`.
* [[tips/html5]] on by default (some day..)
* Remove support for old `.ikiwiki/comments_pending` and for
  pending comments located in the srcdir, rather than transient underlay,
  from comment plugin. That support makes comment moderation slow as
  it has to check all the old locations.

In general, we try to use [[ikiwiki-transition]] or forced rebuilds on
upgrade to deal with changes that break compatability. Some things that
can't help with.

# future goals

* Conversion support for existing other wikis. See [[convert]].
* [[TODO]], [[bugs]], ...
