If you are using the sidebar plugin and have a header in the sidebar it shows up in the table of contents.  I can see why this happens but it surprised me and wasn't the desired effect in my specific situation. -- [[AdamShand]]

A related side effect: If you use any sort of headers in the page
template (such as placing the page title in an `<h1>`), the toc plugin
picks it up.  I suppose it parses the entire page rather than just the
rendered content. --[[JasonBlevins]]

Why doesn't the TOC appear in the edit page preview?  It only appears when the page is finally rendered.  This makes it somewhat difficult to organize headings, saving & re-editing all the time.  My user page currently has a toc to play with: --[[sabr]]

> Fixed. --[[Joey]]

Just ran into a side effect of `\[[!toc]]` being a NOP in pages
which are inlined: pages with `\[[!template id=note text="[[!toc]]"]]`
wound up having the note rendered in feeds as "Use this template
to insert a note into a page". Worked around this by making a local
copy of the template and removing its `<TMPL_UNLESS text>...</TMPL_UNLESS>`
section. Besides needing to generate guaranteed-unique anchor names,
are there other reasons this directive couldn't be made to work on
inlined pages?  --[[schmonz]]

> Workaround: `\[[!template id=note text=" [[!toc]]"]]`
> (with whitespace) should work, because then Perl will consider
> the string to be a true value.
>
> Longer-term, my branch on [[bugs/template_creation_error]]
> aims to fix this sort of thing. --[[smcv]]

>> Workaround seems not to. Maybe whitespace is getting trimmed
>> along the way and it stays falsish. Interested in your branch;
>> sorry I can't offer precise feedback right now, but it looks sane
>> at a glance. --[[schmonz]]

How could this be tampered to make another plugin that would enable partial listing so I could make multiple "subTOCs" in the same page? For instance I'd have a `[[!toc startlevel=1 levels=1]]` in the top of the page while after a level 1 heading I would have a `[[!toc startlevel=2]]` with the level 2 and below headers limited by the ones below this particular level 1 header --[[iuri]]
