I get the following error when building my wiki

    Argument "\x{3c}\x{54}..." isn't numeric in numeric eq (==) at /usr/share/perl5/IkiWiki.pm line 2547.
    Argument "\x{3c}\x{54}..." isn't numeric in numeric eq (==) at /usr/share/perl5/IkiWiki.pm line 2547.

that line corresponds to

    sub match_creation_year ($$;@) {
	if ((localtime($IkiWiki::pagectime{shift()}))[5] + 1900 == shift) { <-- this one
		return IkiWiki::SuccessReason->new('creation_year matched');
	}

A git bisect shows that the offending commit introduced this hunk


    --- /dev/null
    +++ b/templates/all_entry.mdwn
    @@ -0,0 +1,23 @@
    +## <TMPL_VAR year>
    +
    +There
    +<TMPL_IF current>
    +have been
    +<TMPL_ELSE>
    +were
    +</TMPL_IF>
    +[[!pagecount pages="
    +log/* and !tagged(aggregation) and !*/Discussion and !tagged(draft)
    +and creation_year(<TMPL_VAR year>)
    +and !*.png and !*.jpg
    +"]] posts
    +<TMPL_IF current>
    +so far
    +</TMPL_IF>
    +in <TMPL_VAR year>.
    +
    +[[!inline pages="
    +    log/* and !tagged(aggregation) and !*/Discussion and !tagged(draft)
    +    and creation_year(<TMPL_VAR year>)
    +    and !*.png and !*.jpg
    +    " archive=yes feeds=no]]

The lines which feature creation_year(<TMPL_VAR year>) are most likely the culprits.  That would explain why the error was repeated twice, and would tally with the file in `templates/` being rendered, rather than the inclusionists.

A workaround is to move the template outside of the srcdir into the external templates directory and include the file suffix when using it, e.g.

    \[[!template id=all_entry.tmpl year=2010 current=true]]

I believed (until I tested) that the [[ikiwiki/directive/if]] directive, with the `included()` test, would be an option here, E.g.

    \[[!if test="included()" then="""
    ...template...
    """ else="""
    Nothing to see here.
    """]]

However this doesn't work.  I assume "included" in this context means e.g. via an `inline` or `map`, not template trans-clusion. -- [[Jon]]

> As far as I know, this bug was fixed in
> 4a75dee651390b79ce4ceb1d951b02e28b3ce83a on October 20th. [[done]] --[[Joey]]

>> Sorry Joey, I'll make sure to reproduce stuff against master in future. [[Jon]]
