Version 2.0 of bzr seems to break the bzr plugin.

I traced this to the bzr_log method in the plugin, and patching that seems to fix it. The plugin just needs to parse the input little bit differently.
--liw

> Patch applied, [[done]] (but, it would be good if it could be tested with
> an older bzr, and it's a pity bzr's human-targeted log has to be parsed,
> I assume there is no machine-targeted version?) --[[Joey]] 

    From fb897114124e627fd3acf5af8e784c9a77419a81 Mon Sep 17 00:00:00 2001
    From: Lars Wirzenius <liw@liw.fi>
    Date: Sun, 4 Apr 2010 21:05:07 +1200
    Subject: [PATCH] Fix bzr plugin to work with bzr 2.0.

    The output of "bzr log" seems to have changed a bit, so we change the
    parsing accordingly. This has not been tested with earlier versions of
    bzr.

    Several problems seemed to occur, all in the bzr_log subroutine:

    1. The @infos list would contain an empty hash, which would confuse the
       rest of the program.
    2. This was because bzr_log would push an empty anonymous hash to the
       list whenever it thought a new record would start.
    3. However, a new record marker (now?) also happens at th end of bzr log
       output.
    4. Now we collect the record to a hash that gets pushed to the list only
       if it is not empty.
    5. Also, sometimes bzr log outputs "revno: 1234 [merge]", so we catch only
       the revision number.
    6. Finally, there may be non-headers at the of the output, so we ignore
       those.
    ---
     IkiWiki/Plugin/bzr.pm |   23 ++++++++++++++++-------
     1 files changed, 16 insertions(+), 7 deletions(-)

    diff --git a/IkiWiki/Plugin/bzr.pm b/IkiWiki/Plugin/bzr.pm
    index 1ffdc23..e813331 100644
    --- a/IkiWiki/Plugin/bzr.pm
    +++ b/IkiWiki/Plugin/bzr.pm
    @@ -73,28 +73,37 @@ sub bzr_log ($) {
     	my @infos = ();
     	my $key = undef;
     
    +    my $hash = {};
     	while (<$out>) {
     		my $line = $_;
     		my ($value);
     		if ($line =~ /^message:/) {
     			$key = "message";
    -			$infos[$#infos]{$key} = "";
    +			$$hash{$key} = "";
     		}
     		elsif ($line =~ /^(modified|added|renamed|renamed and modified|removed):/) {
     			$key = "files";
    -			unless (defined($infos[$#infos]{$key})) { $infos[$#infos]{$key} = ""; }
    +			unless (defined($$hash{$key})) { $$hash{$key} = ""; }
     		}
     		elsif (defined($key) and $line =~ /^  (.*)/) {
    -			$infos[$#infos]{$key} .= "$1\n";
    +			$$hash{$key} .= "$1\n";
     		}
     		elsif ($line eq "------------------------------------------------------------\n") {
    +		    if (keys %$hash) {
    +    		    push (@infos, $hash);
    +		    }
    +    		$hash = {};
     			$key = undef;
    -			push (@infos, {});
     		}
    -		else {
    +		elsif ($line =~ /: /) {
     			chomp $line;
    -				($key, $value) = split /: +/, $line, 2;
    -			$infos[$#infos]{$key} = $value;
    +			if ($line =~ /^revno: (\d+)/) {
    +			    $key = "revno";
    +			    $value = $1;
    +			} else {
    +    			($key, $value) = split /: +/, $line, 2;
    +    		}
    +			$$hash{$key} = $value;
     		} 
     	}
     	close $out;
    -- 
    1.7.0
