I often find myself wrapping the same boiler plate around [[ikiwiki/directives/img]] img directives, so I tried to encapsulate it using the following [[ikiwiki/directives/template]]:


    <div class="image">
    [\[!img <TMPL_VAR raw_href>
    size="<TMPL_VAR raw_size>"
    
    <TMPL_IF alt>
      alt="<TMPL_VAR raw_alt>"
    <TMPL_ELSE>
      <TMPL_IF caption>
        alt="<TMPL_VAR raw_alt>"
      <TMPL_ELSE>
        alt="[pic]"
      </TMPL_IF>
    </TMPL_IF>
    
    ]]
    <TMPL_IF caption>
    <p><TMPL_VAR raw_caption></p>
    </TMPL_IF>
    </div>

The result, even with htmlscrubber disabled, is mangled, something like

    <div class="image">
    <span class="createlink"><a href="http://jmtd.net/cgi?
        page=size&amp;from=log0.000000old_new_test&amp;do=create"
        rel="nofollow">?</a>size</span>
    
    </div>

Any suggestions gladly received. -- [[Jon]]

> Well, you *should* be able to do things like this, and in my testing, I
> *can*. I used your exact example above (removing the backslash escape)
> and invoked it as:
>	\[[!template id=test href=himom.png size=100x]]
> 
> And got just what you would expect.
> 
> I don't know what went wrong for you, but I don't see a bug here. 
> My guess, at the moment, is that you didn't specify the required href
> and size parameters when using the template. If I leave those off,
> I of course reproduce what you reported, since the img directive gets
> called with no filename, and so assumes the size parameter is the image
> to display.. [[done]]? --[[Joey]] 

>> Hmm, eek. Just double-checked, and done a full rebuild. No dice! Version 3.20100831. Feel free to leave this marked done, It probably *is* PEBKAC. I shall look again in day time. -- [[Jon]]

>>> As always, if you'd like to mail me a larger test case that reproduces a
>>> problem for you, I can take a look at it. --[[Joey]]

>>>> <s>Thank you for the offer.  I might still take you up on it.  I've just proven that this
>>>> does work for a clean repo / bare bones test case. -- [[Jon]]</s> Figured it out. The
>>>> problem was I'd copied a page (old_new) which had two images embedded in it to test.
>>>> I'd stored the images under a subdir "old_new". The new page was called "old_new_test"
>>>> and the images thus could not be found by a pagespec "some-image.jpg". Adjusting the
>>>> href argument to the template (consequently the src argument to img) to
>>>> "old_new/some-image.jpg" fixed it all. [[done]], PEBKAC. Thank you for your time :)
>>>> -- [[Jon]]
