I have a private ikiwiki (3.20170111) which is running on a host that serves HTTP and HTTPS, but ikiwiki is configured for (and only served on) HTTPS:

    url: https://redacted/phd/
    cgiurl: https://redacted/phd/cgi

However, form submissions from ikiwiki are going to a HTTP URL and thus not being served. Example headers from submitting a comment:



    Request URL:https://redacted/phd/cgi
    Request Method:POST
    Status Code:302 Found
    Remote Address:redacted:443
    Referrer Policy:no-referrer-when-downgrade

Response Headers

    HTTP/1.1 302 Found
    Server: nginx/1.10.3
    Date: Fri, 08 Dec 2017 11:53:35 GMT
    Content-Length: 0
    Connection: keep-alive
    Status: 302 Found
    Location: http://redacted/phd/blog/38th_Dec/?updated#comment-bd0549eb2464b5ca0544f68e6c32221e

> Your form submission was in fact done successfully. The failing redirection to http is
> when ikiwiki follows up the successful edit by redirecting you from the form submission
> URL to the updated page, which is done by `IkiWiki::redirect`. --[[smcv]]

The CGI is served by lighttpd, but the whole site is front-ended by nginx, which reverse-proxies to lighttpd.

----

I think this might be to do with nginx not rewriting POST URLs when reverse-proxying, but I'm not sure why
they would be generated in an HTTP form in any case, except perhaps by lighttpd's CGI handler since the back
end is HTTP. A workaround is for nginx to redirect any HTTP URI to the HTTPS equivalent. I initially disabled
that so as to have the path for letsencrypt negotiation not redirected.-- [[Users/Jon]]

> Do you have the `reverse_proxy` option set to 1? (It affects how ikiwiki generates
> self-referential URLs).
>
> Is the connection between nginx and lighttpd http or https?
>
> I think this is maybe a bug in `IkiWiki::redirect` when used in conjunction with
> `reverse_proxy: 1`: when marked as behind a reverse proxy,
> `IkiWiki::redirect` sent `Location: /phd/foo/bar/`, which your backend web
> server might be misinterpreting. ikiwiki git master now sends
> `Location: https://redacted/phd/foo/bar/` instead: does that resolve this
> for you?
>
> Assuming nginx has a reasonable level of configuration, you can redirect http to https
> for the entire server except `/.well-known/acme-challenge/` as a good way to bootstrap
> ACME negotiation. --[[smcv]]
