Although I have comments enabled and I have been using them successfully for ages now, I've come to notice that they have stopped working in the last week or two.

I am running version 3.20100312 with the following configuration:

<http://static.natalian.org/2010-03-27/natalian.txt>

In my (HTML5 modified page.tmpl) it doesn't seem to enter the "TMPL_IF COMMENTS" block anymore. I tried the stock page.tmpl and they didn't seem to work either, so the variable name hasn't changed has it?

Any other ideas? With thanks,

	comments_pagespec => 'archives/* and !*/Discussion',

> Your setup file only allows comments to pages under archives. That 
> seems unlikely to be right, so I guess it is causing your problem.
> --[[Joey]] 

That's the only place where I want comments. <http://natalian.org/archives/>
Has the pagespec changed? Is it `archives/*/*` or something like that?

It worked just fine with this configuration. I swear I have not modified it. :) -- [[Kai Hendry]]

> No changes that I can think of. 'archives/*' will match *all* pages under
> archives. Anyway, I can see in your site's rss feed that comments are
> enabled for posts, since they have comments tags there. And
> in fact I see comments on eg
> <http://natalian.org/archives/2010/03/25/BBC_News_complaints/>.
> 
> So I suspect you have simply not rebuilt your wiki after making some
> change that fixed the comments, and so only newer pages are getting them.
> --[[Joey]]

I have tried rebuilding on my squeeze system and still comments don't appear. Any clues how to debug this?
<http://natalian.org/comments/>

I was worried is was due to a time skew problem I was experiencing on my VPS in the last month, though the time is right now and still comments do not appear on blog posts like <http://natalian.org/archives/2010/03/25/BBC_News_complaints/>

# Debugging templates

`sudo apt-get install libhtml-template-compiled-perl`

    hendry@webconverger templates$ cat test-template.perl
    #!/usr/bin/perl
    use HTML::Template::Compiled;
    local $HTML::Template::Compiled::DEBUG = 1;
    my $htc = HTML::Template::Compiled->new(
             filename => "$ARGV[0]",
    );
    eval {  
            print $htc->output;
    };
    if ($@) {
            # reports as text
            my $msg = $htc->debug_code;
            # reports as a html table
            my $msg_html = $htc->debug_code('html');
    }
    hendry@webconverger templates$ ./test-template.perl page.tmpl
    Missing closing tag for 'IF' atend of page.tmpl line 159


I think the problem was before that it was `<TMPL_IF COMMENTS>` and now it is `<TMPL_IF NAME="COMMENTS">` ?



# Solved

A merge with the templates in master with my [html5](http://git.webconverger.org/?p=ikiwiki;a=shortlog;h=refs/heads/html5) branch looks like it has solved the problem. Also see [[bugs/html5_support]].

[[bugs/done]]
