[[!template  id=gitbranch branch=anarcat/dev/proxy-utf8-fail author="[[anarcat]]"]]

ikiwiki 3.20130904.1~bpo70+1

rebuilding the whole wiki:

[[!format txt """
anarcat@marcos:ikiwiki*$ sudo ikisite changesetup wiki.anarc.at --rebuild
Subroutine import redefined at /usr/share/perl5/IkiWiki/Plugin/translinks.pm line 19.
Subroutine getsetup redefined at /usr/share/perl5/IkiWiki/Plugin/translinks.pm line 29.
Subroutine pagetemplate redefined at /usr/share/perl5/IkiWiki/Plugin/translinks.pm line 38.
Subroutine otherlanguagesloop redefined at /usr/share/perl5/IkiWiki/Plugin/translinks.pm line 51.
Use of uninitialized value $body in split at /usr/share/perl5/Text/MultiMarkdown.pm line 1131.
uncaught exception: 'ascii' codec can't encode character u'\xe9' in position 289: ordinal not in range(128)
Traceback (most recent call last):
  File "/usr/lib/ikiwiki/plugins/proxy.py", line 309, in run
    self._in_fd, self._out_fd)
  File "/usr/lib/ikiwiki/plugins/proxy.py", line 192, in handle_rpc
    ret = self._dispatcher.dispatch(method, params)
  File "/usr/lib/ikiwiki/plugins/proxy.py", line 84, in dispatch
    return self._dispatch(method, params)
  File "/usr/lib/python2.7/SimpleXMLRPCServer.py", line 420, in _dispatch
    return func(*params)
  File "/usr/lib/ikiwiki/plugins/proxy.py", line 253, in hook_proxy
    "{0} hook `{1}' returned: [{2}]".format(type, name, ret))
UnicodeEncodeError: 'ascii' codec can't encode character u'\xe9' in position 289: ordinal not in range(128)

Traceback (most recent call last):
  File "/usr/lib/ikiwiki/plugins/rst", line 86, in <module>
    proxy.run()
  File "/usr/lib/ikiwiki/plugins/proxy.py", line 317, in run
    self.error('uncaught exception: {0}\n{1}'.format(e, tb))
  File "/usr/lib/ikiwiki/plugins/proxy.py", line 298, in error
    self.rpc('error', msg)
  File "/usr/lib/ikiwiki/plugins/proxy.py", line 233, in rpc
    *args, **kwargs)
  File "/usr/lib/ikiwiki/plugins/proxy.py", line 173, in send_rpc
    raise GoingDown()
proxy.py.GoingDown
error: ikiwiki failed
"""]]

\xe9 is "é" in latin1, it may be the last letter of my name. no clue how it got there. suspecting this is related to the fix in [[bugs/proxy.py_utf8_troubles]], since this was not happening before the upgrade from squeeze. --[[anarcat]]

> Ooops... turns out the plugin *was* enabled, through the `rst` plugin. After disabling it, the crash is gone, but one page isn't rendered anymore:
> 
>     removing art/histoireinternet/index.html, no longer built by art/histoireinternet.rst
> 
> Here is that source file: http://anarc.at/art/histoireinternet.rst - and it seems encoded properly:
>
>     $ curl -s http://anarc.at/art/histoireinternet.rst | iconv -f utf8 -t latin1 | iconv -f latin1 -t utf8 > /dev/null
>     $
> 
> So I am not sure what is going on here... --[[anarcat]]

>> Python is decoding what it receives from IkiWiki using the default `ascii`
>> codec. To match IkiWiki's "all source text is UTF-8" assumption, the
>> Python proxy should explicitly decode incoming text from bytes
>> (`str`) to `unicode` using the `utf8` codec instead.
>>
>> Python's conservative default is "`ascii`, regardless of locale" -
>> this minimizes the chance of silently incorrect decoding, but
>> unfortunately also maximizes the chance of crashing. --[[smcv]]

> > > Right, I know that. The trick is to find the rabbit hole. :P
> > > 
> > > And I found it. With my dev/proxy-utf8-fail, this doesn't fail anymore. Yay, a [[patch]] ready for commit! --[[anarcat]]

> > > > I don't see that branch in your git repo, could you repost it please?
> > > > (I'm trying to review some of the pending patches.) --[[smcv]]

>>>>> Ooops.. I forgot to push the branch, it should be good now! --[[anarcat]]

>>>>>> [[merged|done]] --[[Joey]]
