I added a feedpages directive to `blog/index.mdwn` to not pick up anything tagged `tags/random/hidden` yet that still happenend.

    ~git/richardhartmann.de/blog % grep hidden index.mdwn
    \[[!inline pages="./posts/*/*/* and !*/Discussion" feedpages="./posts/*/*/* and !*/Discussion and not tagged(tags/random/hidden)" show="10" actions=yes rootpage="blog"]]
    ~git/richardhartmann.de/blog % grep hidden posts/2013/05/17-Debian_Release_Critical_Bug_report_for_Week_20.mdwn
    \[[!tag tags/tech/floss/debian tags/tech/floss/debian/rc-stats/8.0-jessie tags/random/hidden]]
    ~git/richardhartmann.de/blog %

If you need more information, please let me know.

Richard

> I don't think this is a bug. You have a syntax error in your pagespec:
> "not" is not a recognised keyword in [[pagespecs|ikiwiki/pagespec]],
> so `and not tagged(...)` should be `and !tagged(...)`. Presumably inline
> falls back to `pages` when `feedpages` doesn't work.
>
> By posting the pagespec here with insufficient escaping (which I've fixed)
> you caused *this* ikiwiki instance's HTML to contain an error message
> illustrating that syntax error :-)
>
>     <span class="error">Error: syntax error in pagespec "(./posts/*/*/* and !*/Discussion) and (./posts/*/*/* and !*/Discussion and not tagged(tags/random/hidden))"</span>
>
> [[done]]. --[[smcv]]

> > As per IRC: Thanks. As an aside, shouldn't this ikiwiki instance ignore directives in normal text? The problem may be non-trivial, but still... -- Richard

>>> "Normal text" is exactly where directives go, so, not really.
>>> If you mean verbatim text (e.g. indentation in Markdown): the fact that
>>> directives still expand to HTML, which is then treated as verbatim, is an
>>> unfortunate result of how ikiwiki interacts with pages' markup languages
>>> (directives and wikilinks happen before markup is converted to HTML). --[[smcv]]
