Multimarkdown footnotes are pretty useful. If they are enabled in a
wiki, they don't look so good with the default stylesheet, however, as
the references are in the same size and positioning as everything
else.

This particular wiki does not use multimarkdown, so there's no easy
way to demonstrate this here, you'll have to trust me on this. :)

The following stylesheet should be added to `style.css`:

    a.footnote { vertical-align: super; font-size: xx-small; }
    div.footnotes { font-size: small; }

This is a typical style that user-agents apply to the `<sup>` tag. For
example, chromium has this builtin style for `<sup>`:

    vertical-align: super;
    font-size: smaller;

Bootstrap uses this instead:

    sup {
        top: -.5em;
    }
    
    sub, sup {
        position: relative;
        font-size: 75%;
        line-height: 0;
        vertical-align: baseline;
    }

I settled on `xx-small` because it's the only size that doesn't affect
line-height here. However, Bootstrap's way may be better.

At any rate, the correct way to fix this is to *avoid* custom styling
and use the `<sup>` tag for the footnote reference, as it has
*meaning* which is important to have proper semantic output (e.g. for
screen readers), as detailed in [this Stack Overflow discussion][].
--[[anarcat]]

[this Stack Overflow discussion]: http://stackoverflow.com/questions/501671/superscript-in-css-only

> ikiwiki code does not interpret Markdown or translate it into HTML.
> If I'm interpreting what you say correctly, you seem to be implying
> that you think [[!cpan Text::MultiMarkdown]] is producing incorrect
> HTML for footnotes (is an `<a>` with a `class`, should be a `<sup>`).
> If so, please report that as a MultiMarkdown bug, not an ikiwiki bug,
> or alternatively don't use MultiMarkdown.
>
> What remains after eliminating the MultiMarkdown bug seems to be:
> ikiwiki's default stylesheet does not contain the necessary styling
> to work around the non-semantic markup produced by the non-default
> Text::MultiMarkdown Markdown implementation. Is that an accurate
> summary?
> --[[smcv]]

Note that I also make the bottom `<div>` small as well so that it has
less weight than the rest of the text. -- [[anarcat]]
