If you use the rescaling feature of the directive [[ikiwiki/directive/img/]] with a smaller image it will distort. E.g. an image with 150x250 rescaled into size=200x200. --bastla

> More specifically: `img` normally preserves aspect ratio:
> `size=200x200` normally means "as large as possible, keeping
> the width 200px or less, the height 200px or less, and the
> aspect ratio correct". So a 4:3 image with `size=200x200`
> would actually come out 200px wide and 150px tall.
>
> However, when (desired width is specified) && (desired height is specified)
> && ((width > desired width) || (height > desired height)),
> it uses exactly the desired size, without preserving aspect ratio.
> --smcv

>> [[!template id=gitbranch branch=chrysn/imgforpdf-and-more author="[[chrysn]]"]]
>>
>> [[!tag patch]]
>>
>> i've implemented a fix for this along with a unit test.
>>
>> the patch branch is based on the imgforpdf branch
>> ([[bugs/svg and pdf conversion fails]]), because it would not cleanly merge.
>> the  branch also enhances on how images are handled in preview, falling back
>> to data: urls if the image has not been rendered in a saved version. please
>> review. --[[chrysn]]

>>> Mostly [[looks good to me|users/smcv/ready]].
>>>
>>> Minor things, which wouldn't stop me merging it if I could:
>>>
>>> * `$imgdatalink = "data:image/".$im->Get("magick").";base64,".encode_base64($blob[0]);`:
>>>   is the ImageMagick file type always valid as the second part of
>>>   a MIME type?
>>> * In this code:
>>>
>>>       +open (my $outhtmlfd, "<", "$outpath.html");
>>>       +local $/=undef;
>>>       +my $outhtml = <$outhtmlfd>;
>>>       +close $outhtmlfd;
>>>
>>>   no block is closed, so the "local" is ineffective, so the `<>` operator
>>>   remains in read-entire-file mode afterwards. To avoid odd side-effects,
>>>   I would suggest using `readfile()` like `t/trail.t` does.
>>>
>>> [[!template id=gitbranch branch=smcv/ready/imgforpdf-and-more author="[[chrysn]], [[smcv]]"
      browse=http://git.pseudorandom.co.uk/smcv/ikiwiki.git/shortlog/refs/heads/ready/imgforpdf-and-more]]
>>> I've used `readfile()` (but not done anything about the ImageMagick file type)
>>> in my copy of the branch.
>>>
>>> --[[smcv]]

>>>> [[merged|done]] --[[smcv]]
