Joey, please see RecentChanges and note that this is my second bug report,
because the first was unsuccessfully (bad characters in post title?).
Could you please tidy it up?

> I've fixed that and the bug that caused the dup.

>> Thanks a lot! :)

I've just upgraded my ikiwiki from version 2.11 to the latest version 2.15.
I use my own rebuilt ikiwiki package for Ubuntu Gutsy box. Now I can't rebuild
all my ikiwiki pages, because of the following bug:

    ptecza@anahaim:~/blog$ ikiwiki --setup ikiwiki.setup --getctime --verbose
    [...]
    scanning post/2007/12/09/pink-freud-w-cafe-kulturalna.mdwn
    ikiwiki.setup: Insecure dependency in mkdir while running with -T switch at /usr/share/perl5/IkiWiki.pm line 355.
    BEGIN failed--compilation aborted at (eval 5) line 151.

I have a write permission to the ikiwiki destination directory:

    ptecza@anahaim:~/blog$ ls -ld /var/www/blog/
    drwxr-xr-x 2 ptecza ptecza 4096 2007-12-17 10:48 /var/www/blog/

I've read ikiwiki changelog for the previous releases and unfortunately
I can't see any related entries. Any ideas?

--[[Paweł|ptecza]]

> **Update**: I've came back to ikiwiki 2.11 and... the bug still exists!
> Probably the reason is that I've removed all content of `/var/www/blog/`
> before mass rebuilding. --[[Paweł|ptecza]]

> I can't reproduce this bug with a setup file that tells ikiwiki to
> write to /var/www/blog, which doesn't exist. I get a "Permission denied"
> since I can't write to /var/www. If I make the permissions allow me to
> write to /var/www, it happily creates the blog subdirectory. If the blog
> subdirectory is already there and I can write to it, that of course also
> works.
> 
> I'll need enough information to reproduce the problem before I can fix
> it. Probably a copy of your setup file, wiki source, and information
> about how your /var/www is set up. --[[Joey]]

>> Thanks for your efforts, Joey! I sent my `ikiwiki.setup` file to you.
>> What source do you need? Entire my ikiwiki or only some pages?
>>
>> There are settings of `/var/www/` directory on my Ubuntu Gutsy box:
>>
>>        ptecza@anahaim:~$ ls -al /var/www/
>>        total 16
>>        drwxr-xr-x  4 root   root   4096 2007-11-06 16:25 .
>>        drwxr-xr-x 14 root   root   4096 2007-11-06 16:13 ..
>>        drwxr-xr-x  2 root   root   4096 2007-11-06 16:13 apache2-default
>>        drwxr-xr-x  5 ptecza ptecza 4096 2007-12-17 16:54 blog
>>
>> --[[Paweł|ptecza]]

>> I need a set of files that you know I can use to reproduce the bug.
>> --[[Joey]]

>>> OK, I've just sent you the URL where you can find all files you need :)
>>>
>>> Probably I know how to reproduce the bug. You have to erase all files from
>>> `/var/www/blog` before mass rebuilding. This is my `mass-rebuild.sh` script:
>>>
>>>        #!/bin/bash
>>>        
>>>        rm -rf /var/www/blog/*
>>>        ikiwiki --setup ikiwiki.setup --getctime --verbose
>>>
>>> I noticed that the bug was "resolved" when I added to my blog new entry
>>> and commited the changes. Before I created all directories and touched
>>> empty `*.html` files in `/var/www/blog` directory. Probably it's not
>>> necessary, because without a new blog revision the bug still existed
>>> and `ikiwiki` still failed.
>>>
>>> --[[Paweł|ptecza]]

>> I'd forgotten about [this perl bug](http://bugs.debian.org/411786).
>> All I can do is work around it by disabling the taint checking. :-(
>> (Which I've [[done]].) --[[Joey]]

>>> Ubuntu Gutsy also has Perl 5.8.8-7, so probably it has the bug too.
>>> --[[Paweł|ptecza]]

>>>> I just got it while building my latest version of git.ikiwiki.info + my stuff.
>>>> Only thing different in my version in IkiWiki.pm is that I moved a &lt;/a> over
>>>> a word (for createlink), and disabled the lowercasing of created pages. Running
>>>> Lenny's Perl. --[[simonraven]]

>>>> Simon, I'm not clear what version of ikiwiki you're using.
>>>> Since version 2.40, taint checking has been disabled by
>>>> default due to the underlying perl bug. Unless you
>>>> build ikiwiki with NOTAINT=0. --[[Joey]] 

>>>> Hi, nope not doing this. Um, sorry, v. 3.13. I've no idea why it suddenly started doing this.
>>>> It wasn't before. I've been messing around IkiWiki.pm to see if I can set
>>>> a umask for `mkdir`.

line 775 and down:
+			        umask ($config{umask} || 0022);

>>>> I figured it *might* be the `umask`, but I'll see in a few when / if it gets past that in the build. No; I keep getting garbage during the brokenlinks test

<pre>
t/basewiki_brokenlinks.....Insecure dependency in mkdir while running with -T switch at IkiWiki.pm line 776.

#   Failed test at t/basewiki_brokenlinks.t line 11.

#   Failed test at t/basewiki_brokenlinks.t line 19.


broken links found
&lt;li>shortcut from &lt;a href="./shortcuts/">shortcuts&lt;/a>&lt;/li>&lt;/ul>



#   Failed test at t/basewiki_brokenlinks.t line 25.
Insecure dependency in mkdir while running with -T switch at IkiWiki.pm line 776.

#   Failed test at t/basewiki_brokenlinks.t line 11.

#   Failed test at t/basewiki_brokenlinks.t line 25.
# Looks like you failed 5 tests of 12.
dubious
        Test returned status 5 (wstat 1280, 0x500)
</pre>

>>>> I get this over and over... I haven't touched that AFAICT, at all. --[[simonraven]]

>>>>> Take a look at your `/usr/bin/ikiwiki`. The first
>>>>> line should not contain -T. If it does, remove it,
>>>>> and maybe try to work out or give details about how
>>>>> you installed ikiwiki and why it got the -T in there,
>>>>> which certianly doesn't happen by default when ikiwiki
>>>>> is installed by the Makefile.PL or by any package I know of.
>>>>> (If there's
>>>>> no -T, then something *really* weird is going on..)
>>>>> --[[Joey]] 

>>>>>> nope, no -T in the hashbang line at all. Haven't added any;
>>>>>> only thing I did there was change `use lib` to `/usr/share/perl5`,
>>>>>> otherwise I'd get bogus errors about CGI::Cookie_al or some such thing.
>>>>>>
>>>>>> How I installed it was in non-public directories in various sites, then
>>>>>> make it publish stuff to a public dir in the relevant site. Or do you
>>>>>> mean installed, as in the whole thing? From a .deb I made based on the git tree, with `git-buildpackage`.
>>>>>>
>>>>>> This issue is recent, after a `git pull` IIRC. It has never happened before. It's also puzzling me.
>>>>>>
>>>>>> You can check it out for yourself by pulling my fork of this, at github or my local repo.
>>>>>> github will probably be faster for you: git://github.com/kjikaqawej/ikiwiki-simon.git --[[simonraven]]

>>>>>>> I don't know what I'm supposed to see in your github tree.. it
>>>>>>> looks identical to an old snapshot of ikiwiki's regular git repo?
>>>>>>> If you want to put up the .deb you're using, I could examine that.
>>>>>>>
>>>>>>> I was in fact able to reproduce the insecure dependency in mkdir
>>>>>>> message -- but only if I run 'perl -T ikiwiki'.
>>>>>>> --[[Joey]] 
