[[!template id=gitbranch branch=chrysn/linkmapenhancement author="[[chrysn]]"]]

[[ikiwiki/directive/linkmap]]s display the file name instead of the pagetitle, showing unsightly underscore escapes and underscores instead of blanks to users.

the attached [[!taglink patch]] fixes this; from its commit message:

    display the pagetitle() in linkmaps
    
    without this patch, linkmaps display underscores and underscore escape
    sequences in the rendered output.
    
    this introduces a pageescape function, which invoces pagetitle() to get
    rid of underscore escapes and wraps the resulting utf8 string
    appropriately for inclusion in a dot file (using dot's html encoding
    because it can represent the '\"' dyad properly, and because it doesn't
    need special-casing of newlines).

the output will look much better (at least in my wikis) with the "[[bugs/pagetitle function does not respect meta titles]]" issue fixed.

> [[Looks good to me|users/smcv/ready]].
>
> I don't think it's correct for `pagetitle()` to output `\[[!meta title]]`
> though, as discussed on the linked bug: it appears in an assortment of
> contexts where the full formal title of the page seems inappropriate.
> If you want linkmap to use `\[[!meta title]]`, I think it would be
> better to give it a `show` parameter, like `\[[!map]]` has?
> --[[smcv]]

>> sounds good; i'll have a look at it the next time i touch the linkmap
>> plugin. the patch at hand would be a starting point for that. --[[chrysn]]

the patch is stored in [[the patch.pl]] as created by git-format-patch, and can
be pulled from the abovementioned branch.

> update 2014-06-29: branch still merges cleanly and works. --[[chrysn]]

>> [[merged|done]] --[[smcv]]
