The [[ikiwiki/directive/listdirectives]]` directive doesn't register a link between the page and the subpages. This is a problem because then the [[ikiwiki/directive/orphans]] directive then marks the directives as orphans... Maybe it is a but with the orphans directive however... A simple workaround is to exclude those files from the orphans call... --[[anarcat]]

> There's a distinction between wikilinks (matched by `link()`,
> `backlink()` etc.) and other constructs that produce a
> hyperlink. Some directives count as a wikilink (like `tag`)
> but many don't (notably `inline`, `map`, `listdirectives`,
> and `orphans` itself). As documented in
> [[ikiwiki/directive/orphans]], orphans will tend to list
> pages that are only matched by inlines/maps, too.
>
> The rule of thumb seems to be that a link to a particular
> page counts as a wikilink, but a directive that lists
> pages matching some pattern does not; so I think
> `listdirectives` is working as intended here.
> `orphans` itself obviously shouldn't count as a wikilink,
> because that would defeat the point of it :-)
>
> Anything that uses a [[ikiwiki/pagespec]] to generate links,
> like `inline` and `map`, can't generate wikilinks, because
> wikilinks are gathered during the scan phase, and pagespecs
> can't be matched until after the scan phase has finished
> (otherwise, it'd be non-deterministic whether all wikilinks
> had been seen yet, and `link()` in pagespecs wouldn't work
> predictably).
>
> I suggest just using something like:
>
>     \[[!orphans pages="* and !blog/* and !ikiwiki/directive/*"]]
>
> This wiki's example of listing [[plugins/orphans]] has a
> more elaborate pagespec, which avoids bugs, todo items etc.
> as well.
>
> --[[smcv]]

> No follow-up or objection for a while, so considering this to
> be working as designed. --[[smcv]]

> > Seems I'm a bit late to butt in, but would it be possible to have two
> > further phases after the scan phase, the first running map and inline 
> > and the second orphan? Then map and inline could log or register their 
> > links (obviously somewhere were it won't change the result of the link function)
> > and orphan could take them into account. This logging could be
> > turned on by parameter to not waste time for users not needing this and 
> > make it tunable (i.e. so that the user can decide which map directives count and which don't)
> > 
> > For someone using map and especially autoindex the output of the orphans directive
> > is simply wrong/useless (at least it is for me). And there is no easy workaround like for listdirectives
> > -- [[holger]]

>>> Hmm. I think this can be done without introducing any "phases",
>>> even, but it would require each plugin that generates links according
>>> to a pagespec to have either a conditional call into the orphans plugin,
>>> or a call to a new core function in ikiwiki that exists solely to
>>> support the orphans plugin. Something like this, maybe:
>>>
>>>     # in map.pm, inline.pm, pagestats.pm etc., at scan time
>>>     if (IkiWiki::Plugin::orphans->can("add_reachable")) {
>>>         IkiWiki::Plugin::orphans::add_reachable($page, $pagespec);
>>>     }
>>>
>>>     # in orphans.pm (pseudocode; note that this does not *evaluate*
>>>     # $pagespec, only stores it, so it's OK to do this at scan time)
>>>     sub needsbuild ($pages)
>>>         for each page in $pages
>>>             clear $pagestate{location}{orphans}{reachable}
>>>     sub reachable ($location, $pagespec)
>>>         add $pagespec to @{$pagestate{location}{orphans}{reachable}}
>>>
>>>     # in preprocess function in orphans.pm (pseudocode)
>>>     # executed at build time, not at scan time, so pagespecs work
>>>
>>>     for each maybe_orphan with no links to it
>>>         for each location with a list of reachable pagespecs
>>>             make the page with the orphans directive depend on \
>>>                 the page that is the location
>>>             for each of those pagespecs
>>>                 if pagespec matches orphan
>>>                     take orphan off the list
>>>                     go to next orphan
>>>     output list of orphans
>>>
>>> (Maybe parentlinks should also annotate the parent/ancestors of
>>> each page as reachable from that page.)
>>>
>>> Do other people (mainly Joey) think that'd be acceptable, or
>>> too intrusive?
>>>
>>> Taking this off the list of resolved bugs again while we think about it.
>>>
>>> I suspect that in the presence of autoindex, what you really want might
>>> be less "there's a link to it" and more "there's a path to it from
>>> the root of the wiki", which is why I called the proposed function
>>> "add_reachable". On the other hand, maybe that's too computationally
>>> intensive to actually do; I haven't tried it.
>>> --[[smcv]]
>>>> 
>>>> (I'll interpet Joeys silence as a good sign ;-). Is there a difference between "link to it" and "path to it"? If we assume autoindex produces bonafide "first class" links there shouldn't be one!?
>>>> So far your idea sounds great, says me without any knowledge of the source. I'll try to grok it. Is there a medium for silly questions, a wiki seems not the right fit for that? -- [[holger]]
