[[!tag plugins/map patch]]

input:

    before.
    \[[!map pages="sdfsdfsdfsd/*"]]
    after.

Presuming that the pagespec does not match, output:

    <p>before.
    <div class="map">
    <ul>
    </div></p>

The UL element is not closed.

Patch:

    --- /usr/share/perl5/IkiWiki/Plugin/map.pm  2009-05-06 00:56:55.000000000 +0100
    +++ IkiWiki/Plugin/map.pm   2009-06-15 12:23:54.000000000 +0100
    @@ -137,11 +137,11 @@
            $openli=1;
            $parent=$item;
        }
    -   while ($indent > 0) {
    +   while ($indent > 1) {
            $indent--;
            $map .= "</li>\n</ul>\n";
        }
    -   $map .= "</div>\n";
    +   $map .= "</ul>\n</div>\n";
        return $map;
     }
     

-- [[Jon]]

> Strictly speaking, a `<ul>` with no `<li>`s isn't valid HTML either...
> could `map` instead delay emitting the first `<ul>` until it determines that
> it will have at least one item? Perhaps refactoring that function into
> something easier to regression-test would be useful. --[[smcv]]

>> You are right (just checked 4.01 DTD to confirm). I suspect refactoring
>> the function would be wise. From my brief look at it to formulate the
>> above I thought it was a bit icky.  I'm not a good judge of what would
>> be regression-test friendly but I might have a go at reworking it. With
>> this variety of problem I have a strong inclination to use HOFs like map,
>> grep. - [[Jon]]

>>> The patch in [[map/discussion|plugins/map/discussion]] has the same
>>> problem, but does suggest a simpler approach to solving it (bail out
>>> early if the map has no items at all). --[[smcv]]

>>>> Thanks for pointing out the problem. I guess this patch should solve it.
>>>> --[[harishcm]]

>>>>> Well, I suppose that's certainly a minimal patch for this bug :-)
>>>>> I'm not the IkiWiki maintainer, but if I was, I'd apply it, so I've put
>>>>> it in a git branch for Joey's convenience. Joey, Jon: any opinion?
>>>>>
>>>>> If you want to be credited for this patch under a name other than
>>>>> "harishcm" (e.g. your real name), let me know and I'll amend the branch.
>>>>> (Or, make a git branch of your own and replace the reference just below,
>>>>> if you prefer.) --[[smcv]]

>>>>>> The current arrangement looks fine to me. Thanks. --[[harishcm]]

> [[merged|done]] --[[Joey]] 

Patch:

    --- /usr/local/share/perl/5.8.8/IkiWiki/Plugin/map.pm
    +++ map.pm
    @@ -80,7 +80,17 @@
     	my $indent=0;
     	my $openli=0;
     	my $addparent="";
    -	my $map = "<div class='map'>\n<ul>\n";
    +	my $map = "<div class='map'>\n";
    +
    +	# Return empty div if %mapitems is empty
    +	if (!scalar(keys %mapitems)) {
    +		$map .= "</div>\n";
    +		return $map; 
    +	} 
    +	else { # continue populating $map
    +		$map .= "<ul>\n";
    +	}
    +
     	foreach my $item (sort keys %mapitems) {
     		my @linktext = (length $mapitems{$item} ? (linktext => $mapitems{$item}) : ());
     		$item=~s/^\Q$common_prefix\E\///
