While working on our forum I was surprised to see that some of the comments were not appearing in the RSS feed created by `!inline pages="forum/* or comment(forum/*)" feedonly="yes" show="25"`.

> I'm seeing some comments in the rss feed. The feed is limited to the 25
> most recent items, you can increase that with feedshow. --[[Joey]]

>> Of course, but in the feed, some of the new comments don't show up.
>> Most does but not all. For example, none of the comments of this thread
>> appears in the RSS, even though they should according to the « 25 most
>> recent items » criteria:
>> <https://tails.boum.org/forum/Security_Updates:_apt-get_Sufficient__63__/> --sajolida

>>> Of course this is a moving target, so I checked out 
>>> 4a787aecb142f346190ddaef59938799818c964b, which is from the same day
>>> the above was written.. The comments in question appeared in
>>> the rss feed when I ran `ikiwiki -setup ikiwiki.setup -gettime`
>>> (after configuring the setup file to use git and rss and setting
>>> `gitorigin_branch: ''`)
>>>
>>> So I suppose I'd need a testcase in a tarball to reproduce 
>>> any problem. --[[Joey]]

>>>> Once I set `rcs: git` and `gitorigin_branch: ''`, I also get a
>>>> perfect RSS feed that contains the items git log makes me expect,
>>>> in the correct order. So this is not a ikiwiki bug after all,
>>>> sorry for the annoyance. (For the record, I think we have two
>>>> problems: first, our ikiwiki.setup does not enable a RCS, mainly
>>>> to avoid local refresh to create ugly "updated PO files" Git
>>>> commits; this explains the issue sajolida noticed while locally
>>>> building the wiki. Second, the RSS feed on our online ikiwiki is
>>>> correct right now, was probably cured by a rebuild at some point.
>>>> --[[intrigeri]]

Then I found out that a map directive such as `!map pages="forum/* or
comment(forum/*)"` was bringing a weird result too. The output is a map
with quite a few broken links.

> This is the same as if you tried to link to a comment page or other 
> internal page with a [[ikiwiki/WikiLink]] -- you'd get a broken link
> or a create link because these are not true wiki pages. --[[Joey]]

>> So I don't understand why 90 % of the comments are linked well and 10 %
>> are broken links. Why does this map behave differently for only a few comments? --sajolida

>>> I checked the first 50% or so of the comments, and every one was a
>>> broken link. --[[Joey]]

>>>> I now observe the same behaviour as Joey, which seems totally
>>>> logical to me after all given that `forum/*/comment_*.html` are
>>>> not generated. I wonder how we could have observed map generating
>>>> working links to comments in the first place; sajolida, can you
>>>> please try reproducing it? If you cannot reproduce it, I think we
>>>> can close this bug. --[[intrigeri]]

Plus, some broken links in the map do match the comments missing on the RSS feed but some others do not.

Unfortunately, I couldn't find an obvious pattern for this failure.

We think it's a bug in ikiwiki. Our git repo is publicly available at
`git://git.immerda.ch/amnesia.git` (the ikiwiki source is in `/wiki/src`)
and the corresponding online version is available at
<https://tails.boum.org/forum/>. The buggy `!inline` is already included in
the original `forum.mdwn`. The buggy `!map` is not but the bug can be
reproduced by just including it in the source of the forum.
