Similarly to [[po:_apache_config_serves_index.rss_for_index]],
the [[plugins/po]] apache config has another bug. 

The use of "DirectoryIndex index", when combined with multiviews, is intended
to serve up a localized version of the index.??.html file.

But, if the site's toplevel index page has a discussion page, that
is "/index/discussion/index.html". Or, if the img plugin is used to scale
an image on the index page, that will be "/index/foo.jpg". In either case,
the "index" directory exists, and so apache happily displays that
directory, rather than the site's index page!

--[[Joey]]

> Ack, we do have a problem. Seems like ikiwiki's use of `index/` as
> the directory for homepage's sub-pages and attachments makes it
> conflict deeply with Apache's `MultiViews`: as the [MultiViews
> documentation](http://httpd.apache.org/docs/2.2/mod/mod_negotiation.html#multiviews)
> says, `index.*` are considered as possible matches only if the
> `index/` directory *does not exist*. Neither type maps nor
> `mod_mime` config parameters seem to allow overriding this behavior.
> Worse even, I guess any page called `index` would have the same
> issues, not only the wiki homepage.

> I can think of two workarounds, both kinda stink:
>
> 1. Have the homepage's `targetpage` be something else than
>    `index.html`.
> 2. Have the directory for the homepage's sub-pages and attachments
>    be something else than `index`.
>
> I doubt either of those can be implemented without ugly special
> casing. Any other idea? --[[intrigeri]]

>> As I understand it, this is how you'd do it with type maps:
>>
>> * turn off MultiViews
>> * `AddHandler type-map .var`
>> * `DirectoryIndex index.var`
>> * make `index.var` a typemap (text file) pointing to `index.en.html`,
>>   `index.fr.html`, etc.
>>
>> I'm not sure how well that fits into IkiWiki's structure, though;
>> perhaps the master language could be responsible for generating the
>> type-map on behalf of all slave languages, or something?
>>
>> Another possibility would be to use filenames like `index.html.en`
>> and `index.html.fr`, and set `DirectoryIndex index.html`? This could
>> get problematic for languages whose ISO codes conventionally mean
>> something else as extensions (Polish, `.pl`, is the usual example,
>> since many sites interpret `.pl` as "this is a (Perl) CGI").
>> --[[smcv]]

>>> There is something to be said about "index/foo" being really ugly
>>> and perhaps it would be nice to use something else. There does not
>>> appear to even be one function that could be changed; "$page/foo" is
>>> hardwired into ikiwiki in many places as a place to dump subsidiary
>>> content -- and it's not even consistent, since there is also eg,
>>> "$page.rss". I agree, approaching it from this direction would be a
>>> mess or a lot of work.
>>>
>>> Type maps seem like a valid option, but also a lot of clutter.
>>> 
>>> `index.html.pl` does seem to be asking for trouble, even if apache
>>> can be configured to DTRT. It would make serving actual up perl scripts
>>> hard, at least. But that is some good out of the box thinking.. 
>>> perhaps "index.foo.pl.html"?
>>>
>>> However, that would mean that 
>>> web servers need to be configured differently to serve translated
>>> and non-translated sites. The current apache configuration for po
>>> can be used with non-po sites and they still work. --[[Joey]]

>>>> I am vulnerable to the same problem because I use MultiViews, though I don't use the `po` module;
>>>> I have to serve both Australian English and American English for my company's website
>>>> (for SEO purposes; certain words that relate to our products are spelt differently in US and Australian English, and we need to be able to be googled with both spellings).
>>>> I'm just fortunate that nobody has thought to add attachments to the front page yet.
>>>> I raise this to point out that this is going to be a recurring problem that won't necessarily be fixed by changing the `po` module in isolation.
>>>>
>>>> One could argue that "index" is already a special case, since it is the top page of the site.
>>>> Things like parentlinks already use a special case for the top page (checking the variable HAS_PARENTLINKS).
>>>> Likewise, when --usedirs is true, index is treated as a special case, since it generates "index.html" and not "index/index.html".
>>>>
>>>> Unfortunately, I'm not sure what the best approach to solving this would be.
>>>> --[[KathrynAndersen]]
