The apache config documented in [[plugins/po]] has a subtle bug. It works
until a site gets an index.atom or index.rss file. (Acutally, with po
enabled, they're called index.en.atom or index.en.rss etc, but the result
is the same).

Then, when wget, curl, or w3m is pointed at http://site/, apache serves
up the rss/atom file rather than the index page.

Analysis:

* /etc/mime.types gives mime types to .rss and .atom files
* `mod_negotiation`'s MultiViews allows any file with a mime type to be
  served up via content negotiation, if the client requests that type.
* wget etc send `Accept: */*` to accept all content types. Compare
  with firefox, which sends `Accept: text/html,application/xhtml+xml,application/xml;q=0.9,*/*`
* So apache has a tie between a html encoded Enlish file, and a rss encoded
  English file and the client has no preference. In a tie, apache will serve up the
  *smallest* file, which tends to be the rss file. (Apache's docs say it uses that
  strange criteria to break ties; see <http://httpd.apache.org/docs/2.0/mod/mod_mime.html#multiviewsmatch>)

The only way I have found to work around this problem is to remove
atom and rss from /etc/mime.types. Of course, that has other undesirable
results. 

I wonder if it would be worth making the po plugin generate apache 
[type map files](http://httpd.apache.org/docs/2.0/mod/mod_negotiation.html#typemaps).
That should avoid this problem.
--[[Joey]]

Update: A non-intrusive fix is to add this to apache configuration. 
This tunes the "quality" of the rss and atom files, in an apparently currently
undocumented way (though someone on #httpd suggested it should get documented).
Result is that apache will prefer serving index.html. --[[Joey]]  [[done]]

	AddType application/rss+xml;qs=0.8 .rss
	AddType application/atom+xml;qs=0.8 .atom
