broken links to translatable basewiki pages that lack po files
--------------------------------------------------------------

If a page is not translated yet, the "translated" version of it
displays wikilinks to other, existing (but not yet translated?)
pages as edit links, as if those pages do not exist. 

That's really confusing, especially as clicking such a link
brings up an edit form to create a new, english page.

This is with po_link_to=current or negotiated. With default, it doesn't
happen.. 

Also, this may only happen if the page being linked to is coming from an
underlay, and the underlays lack translation to a given language.
--[[Joey]] 

> Any simple testcase to reproduce it, please? I've never seen this
> happen yet. --[[intrigeri]]

>> Sure, go here <http://l10n.ikiwiki.info/smiley/smileys/index.sv.html>
>> (Currently 0% translateed) and see the 'WikiLink' link at the bottom,
>> which goes to <http://l10n.ikiwiki.info/ikiwiki.cgi?page=ikiwiki/wikilink&from=smiley/smileys&do=create>
>> Compare with eg, the 100% translated Dansk version, where
>> the WikiLink link links to the English WikiLink page. --[[Joey]] 

>>> Seems not related to the page/string translation status: the 0%
>>> translated Spanish version has the correct link, just like the
>>> Dansk version => I'm changing the bug title accordingly.
>>>
>>> I tested forcing the sv html page to be rebuilt by translating a
>>> string in it, it did not fix the bug. I did the same for the
>>> Spanish page, it did not introduce the bug. So this is really
>>> weird.
>>>
>>> The smiley underlay seems to be the only place where the wrong
>>> thing happens: the basewiki underlay has similar examples
>>> that do not exhibit this bug. An underlay linking to another might
>>> be necessary to reproduce it. Going to dig deeper. --[[intrigeri]]

>>>> After a few hours lost in the Perl debugger, I think I have found
>>>> the root cause of the problem: in l10n wiki's configured
>>>> `underlaydir`, the basewiki is present in every slave language
>>>> that is enabled for this wiki *but* Swedish. With such a
>>>> configuration, the `ikiwiki/wikilink` page indeed does not exist
>>>> in Swedish language: no `ikiwiki/wikilink.sv.po` can be found
>>>> where ikiwiki is looking. Have a look to
>>>> <http://l10n.ikiwiki.info/ikiwiki/>, the basewiki is not
>>>> available in Swedish language on this wiki. So this is not a po
>>>> bug, but a configuration or directories layout issue. This is
>>>> solved by adding the Swedish basewiki to the underlay dir, which
>>>> is I guess not a possibility in the l10n wiki context. I guess
>>>> this could be solved by adding `SRCDIR/basewiki` as an underlay
>>>> to your l10n wiki configuration, possibly using the
>>>> `add_underlays` configuration directive. --[[intrigeri]]

>>>>> There is no complete Swedish underlay translation yet, so it is not
>>>>> shipped in ikiwiki. I don't think it's a misconfiguration to use
>>>>> a language that doesn't have translated underlays. --[[Joey]] 

>>>>>> Ok. The problem is triggered when using a language that doesn't
>>>>>> have translated underlays, *and* defining
>>>>>> `po_translatable_pages` in a way that renders the base wiki
>>>>>> pages translatable in po's view of things, which in turns makes
>>>>>> the po plugin act as if the translation pages did exist,
>>>>>> although they do not in this case. I still need to have a deep
>>>>>> look at the underlays-related code you added to `po.pm` a while
>>>>>> ago. Stay tuned. --[[intrigeri]]

>>>>>>> Fixed in my po branch, along with other related small bugs that
>>>>>>> happen in the very same situation only. --[[intrigeri]]

>>>>>>>> Merged. Not tested yet, but I trust you; [[done]] --[[Joey]] 
