po files are not added to git (error: /path/to/po/file not in repository tree) in my setup.

I have set absolute path for srcdir = '/path/to/repo/doc/'. The root of my git repository is '/path/to/repo/'. When I enable the po plugin, it creates all po files and produces an error when it try to add the file saying that the /path/to/repo/doc/index.fr.po is not in the repository tree.

I have no problem when I use an relative path like srcdir = '.'.

I have an other issue with the po plugin when I set the srcdir to './doc/' (provided that my config file is in /path/to/repo). In this case the po plugin try to add 'doc/doc/index.fr.po' which does not exists (seems like the srcdir path is prepended twice).

> You should never use a relative srcdir path with ikiwiki.
> 
> I wonder what version of git you have there, since it works ok with the
> version I have here. But, the po plugin is definitly doing the wrong
> thing; it's telling git to add the po file with the full scrdir path
> rather than relative to its root. Fixed that. [[done]] --[[Joey]] 

>> Yeah, I figured for the relative path
>> Git version 1.6.3.3 (on both my dev and server machines)
>>
>> Here is an example of what I get when I update the po file on my laptop and I push to the master repository:

     From /srv/git/sb
       5eb4619..ecac4d7  master     -> origin/master
    scanning doc.fr.po
    building doc.fr.po
    building doc.mdwn, which depends on doc.fr
    building recentchanges.mdwn, which depends on recentchanges/change_ecac4d7311b15a3a3ed03102b9250487315740bc
    fatal: '/srv/www/sb.l.n/new/doc/doc.fr.po' is outside repository
    'git add /srv/www/sb.l.n/new/doc/doc.fr.po' failed:  at /usr/share/perl5/IkiWiki/Plugin/git.pm line 161.
    done
    To ssh://git.lohrun.net/var/cache/git/songbook.git
       5eb4619..ecac4d7  master -> master
  
>> The root repository used to run ikiwiki is `/srv/www/sb.l.n/new/` 
>> -- [[AlexandreDupas]]
