# post-commit hangs

I installed ikiwiki v3.14159 in /usr/local from tarball (/usr contains an older version). Having done so, and used ikiwiki-transition to update setup file, the post commit hook is now blocking in flock (as seen by ps). I should also mention that I added the goodstuff, attachment and remove plugins (which was the purpose of upgrading to v3). Any clues as how to debug/fix gratefully received. The wiki is publically viewable at wiki.sgcm.org.uk if that helps.

> It's blocking when you do what? Save a page from the web? Make a commit
> to the underlaying VCS? Which VCS? These are all different code paths..
> --[[Joey]] 

>> It's blocking when I run "ikiwiki --setup ikiwiki.setup" (which calls hg update, which calls ikiwiki --post-commit).
>> Hmm, maybe it's the recursive call to ikiwiki which is the problem.
>> The underlying VCS is mercurial. --Ali

>>> You're not supposed to run ikiwiki -setup manually in your post commit hook.
>>> Doing so will certianly lead to a locking problem; it also forces ikiwiki to rebuild
>>> the entire wiki anytime a single page changes, which is very inefficient!
>>>
>>> Instead, you should use the `mercurial_wrapper` setting
>>> in the setup file, which will make ikiwiki generate a small
>>> executable expressly designed to be run at post commit time.
>>> Or, you can use the `--post-commit` option, as documented
>>> in [[rcs/mecurial]] --[[Joey]] 

>>>> I don't run ikiwiki --setup in the commit hook; I run ikiwiki --post-commit (as mentioned above).
>>>> I'm trying to run ikiwiki --setup from the command line after modifying the setup file.
>>>> ikiwiki --setup is calling hg update, which is calling ikiwiki --post-commit. Am I not supposed to do that? --Ali

>>>>> No, I don't think that hg update should call ikiwiki anything. The
>>>>> [[hgrc_example|rcs/mercurial]] doesn't seem to configure it to do that? --[[Joey]] 

>>>>>> Ok, I'm not sure I understand what's going on, but my problem is solved.
>>>>>>
>>>>>> My hgrc used to say:
>>>>>>
>>>>>> [hooks]
>>>>>>
>>>>>> incoming.update = hg up
>>>>>>
>>>>>> update.ikiwiki = ikiwiki --setup /home/ikiwiki/ikiwiki.setup --post-commit
>>>>>>
>>>>>> I've now changed it to match the example page and it works. Thanks --Ali.

>>>>>>> [[done]]

> Also, how have you arranged to keep it from seeing the installation in /usr? Perl could well be loading
> modules from the old installation, and if it's one with a different locking strategy that would explain your problem. --[[Joey]] 

>> Good point. Not knowing perl, I just assumed /usr/local would take precedence. I've now used "dpkg -r ikiwiki" to remove the problem. --Ali
