Prettydate creates strings like this: _Last edited in the wee hours of Tuesday night, July 1st, 2009_. However, July 1st is a Wednesday, so either date or Weekday should be modified. In the spirit is probably _Tuesday night, June 30th_. --ulrik

> The default prettydate times are fairly idiosyncratic to
> how [[Joey]] thinks about time. Specifically, it's still
> Tuesday night until he wakes up Wednesday morning -- which
> could be in the afternoon. :-P But, Joey also realizes
> that dates change despite his weird time sense, and so
> July 1st starts at midnight on Tuesday and continues
> through Tuesday night and part of Wednesday.
> 
> (This might not be as idiosyncratic as I make it out to be..
> I think that many people would agree that in the wee hours
> of New Years Eve, when they're staggering home ahead of
> the burning daylight, the date is already January 1st.)
> 
> I think the bug here is that prettydate can't represent
> all views of time. While the times
> of day can be configured, and it's possible to configure it
> to call times after midnight "Wednesday morning, July 1st",
> it is not possible to configure the date or weekday based
> on the time of day.
> 
> In order to do so, prettydate's timetable would need to be
> extended to include the "%B %o, %Y" part, and that extended
> to include "%B-", "%o-", and "%Y-" to refer to the day
> before.
> 
> --[[Joey]]

>> fair enough, I think I can get converted to a warped time perspective. --ulrik

>>> Perhaps we can consider this [[done]], then? --[[smcv]]
