Saving a wiki page in ikwiki or 
<tt>ikiwiki --setup wiki.setup --rebuild</tt> takes a **dozen minutes** on a tiny tiny wiki (10 user-added pages)!

I profiled ikiwiki with [[!cpan Devel::SmallProf]] : see [[users/mathdesc]] for details.

And I came to the conclusion that [[plugins/filecheck]] on attachment was the only cause.
It always go the fallback code using time-consuming file even there it's look like it's
not successful. 

<pre>
 # Get the mime type.
        #
        # First, try File::Mimeinfo. This is fast, but doesn't recognise
        # all files.
        eval q{use File::MimeInfo::Magic};                    
        my $mimeinfo_ok=! $@;                                     
        my $mimetype;
        if ($mimeinfo_ok) {
                my $mimetype=File::MimeInfo::Magic::magic($file);
        }                                                         
        
        # Fall back to using file, which has a more complete
        # magic database.
        if (! defined $mimetype) {
                open(my $file_h, "-|", "file", "-bi", $file); 
                $mimetype=<$file_h>;                                 
                chomp $mimetype;                            
                close $file_h;                   
        }
        if (! defined $mimetype || $mimetype !~s /;.*//) {
                # Fall back to default value.
                $mimetype=File::MimeInfo::Magic::default($file)
                        if $mimeinfo_ok; 
                if (! defined $mimetype) {
                        $mimetype="unknown";
                }                                                  
        }        
</pre>

I found on [[plugins/filecheck/discussion/]] what [[users/DavidBremner/]] described as :
> no way to detect text/plain using File::MimeInfo::Magic::magic()
But I can't figure out if my issue is boarder and includes this or not.. 

Any ideas , solve :) more that welcome.

> [[done]], as isbear noted in [[discussion]], there was a bug that
> prevented File::MimeInfo::Magic from ever being used. --[[Joey]]
