We have a weird spam problem on our site - must be something via CGI.

see <http://www.dk0tu.de/recentchanges/discussion/>

The content is changing frequently without being checked into the git repository. Any ideas?

--[[bastla]]

> Please check your web server logs for any error messages from the CGI.
> It seems likely that the spammer is editing that page but the changes
> are somehow not getting committed or pushed.
>
> I can't tell you much without knowing details of your setup.
> For instance, are you using the suggested git repository setup
> shown in the diagram on the [[rcs/git]] page, or something
> different? Can you publish a (possibly censored) setup file somewhere?
>
> It would probably also be worthwhile to compare the git history of
> `srcdir/.git` with the git history of the bare repository, if you
> have one.
>
> To recover, you could undo the spam in the `srcdir` (as the user ID
> that owns the wiki), commit that, and merge with the bare repository
> if necessary.
>
> ----
>
> When I tried editing the spammed page to clear it, I got this error:
>
>     Error: /srv/www/Kurse/AFu-Lizenz/e09.tex independently created, not overwriting with version from Kurse/AFu-Lizenz/e09.tex
>
> Your srcdir and destdir seem to have got out of sync. You might need
> to rebuild the wiki.
>
> (I think I'd have received the same error for *any* edit right now.)
>
> If you're going to enable completely anonymous editing, I
> recommend monitoring the wiki more carefully. It might be useful
> to enable the `syslog` option so that wiki errors go to the
> system log.
>
> --[[smcv]]

>> Whoever runs this wiki seems to have fixed it and enabled authentication now,
>> so I'm going to consider this [[done]]. --[[smcv]]
