[[!template  id=gitbranch branch=chrysn/imgforpdf author="[[chrysn]]"]]

when using the [[img plugin|plugins/img]] with an svg file, it is supposed to
convert it into a png for display in all browsers, and because the typical use
case is rendering small preview versions.

this currently doesn't work (at least with graphicsmagick-libmagick-dev-compat
1.3.18-1) due to the sequence imagemagick options are set, needs an extension
to work for pdfs (or any other imagemagick compatibile file) too, and should
have an additional parameter for page selection.

i've provided a series of [[!taglink patch]]es in the chrysn/imgforpdf [[git]]
branch.

i'd prefer to go a step further, and not only convert pdf and svg files to png,
but everything (with the possible exception of jpg files), as most other image
formats can't be displayed in a browser anyway -- but i didn't in this patch
series, as it would alter the file names of existing images, i don't know if
that needs special care or breaks something i don't use; this way, my patches
should be safe for inclusion.

--[[chrysn]]

> update 2014-06-29: the patch still applies and fixes the issue. in the
> meantime, i noticed that the desired effect doesn't happen when no explicit
> size is set. as scalable graphics don't necessarily have a natural size
> anyway, i don't consider that a showstopper. --[[chrysn]]

>> This all looks good in principle, but I would like to do a more detailed
>> review, and test it with "real ImageMagick" in case its behaviour differs
>> from GraphicsMagick.
>>
>> An automated regression test for the desired behaviour in `t/` would
>> be great. There are SVGs and PNGs in the docwiki already; there are no
>> JPEGs or PDFs, but perhaps you could add a trivially small example
>> of each to `t/`? Imitating `t/tag.t` or `t/trail.t`, and skipping the
>> test if the required modules are missing like `t/podcast.t` does,
>> seems like it would work best.
>>
>> I agree that everything not in an interoperable web format should be
>> converted to PNG when it's scaled down, but yes, that's more likely
>> to be a breaking change, so it seems best to do that as a separate
>> branch. In practice I think this means JPEG -> JPEG and everything
>> else -> PNG, since JPEG is commonly used for photos and photo-like
>> images that don't compress well under lossless compression. --[[smcv]]

>>> i've added a unit test and tested it with the [[!debsid perlmagick]]
>>> package, the [[!debsid graphicsmagick-libmagick-dev-compat]] package and
>>> the experimental [[!debpts libimage-magick-perl]] package (where the
>>> [[!debpts libmagickcore-6.q16-2-extra]] package is required too), in the
>>> meantime filing [[!debbug 753770]]. (why is it that it sometime seems i
>>> find more bugs in ikiwiki's dependencies than in itself when working with
>>> it?)
>>>
>>> the unit test also checks for file removal when it is not created any more,
>>> which works, so my biggest fear about the all-to-png change is unwarranted.
>>> i'll have a look at that some time, but i think as things are, this is
>>> ready now, please review again. --[[chrysn]]
