In [[ikiwiki/markdown]] syntax, none of the other special characters get processed
inside a code block.  However, in ikiwiki, [[wiki_links|ikiwiki/wikilink]] and
[[preprocessor_directives|ikiwiki/directive]] still get processed
inside a code block, requiring additional escaping.  For example, `[links
don't work](#here)`, but `a [[ikiwiki/wikilink]] becomes HTML`. --[[JoshTriplett]]

Indented lines provide a good way to escape a block of text containing
markdown syntax, but ikiwiki links like \[[this]] are still
interpreted within such a block. I think that intepretation should not
be happening. That is I should be able to write:

	[[this]]

and have it render like:

	\[[this]]

--[[cworth]]

----

> Has there been any progress or ideas on this bug recently?  I use an
> expanded CamelCase regexp, and without much escaping in freelink text, or
> url links, or in codeblocks I get IkiWiki's attempt at creating a "link
> within a link".
>
> I have no ideas other than perhaps once IkiWiki encounters \[\[ or the
> position is reset with a backreference from a CamelCased word, further
> processing of wikilinks is disabled until the position is reset and a "no
> not makelinks" flag or variable is cleared.
>
> I've come up with some _really_ ugly workarounds to handle case specific
> stuff like codeblocks but the problem creeps up again and again in
> unexpected places.  I'd be happy to come up with a patch if anyone has a
> bright idea on a nice clean way (_in theroy_) to fix this.  I'm out of ideas.
>
> --CharlesMauch

> I've moved the above comment here because it seems to be talking about
> this bug, not the similar Smileys bug.
> 
> In the case of either bug, no, I don't have an idea of a solution yet.
> --[[Joey]]

> I've now solved a similar bug involving the smiley plugin. The code used
> there should give some strong hints how to fix this bug, though I haven't
> tried to apply the method yet. --[[Joey]]

>> As far, as I can see, smileys bug is solved by checking for code/pre. In
>> this case, however, this is not applicable. WikiLinks/directives *should* be
>> expanded before passing text to formatter, as their expansion may contain
>> markup. Directives should be processed before, as they may provide *partial*
>> markup (eg `template` ones), that have no sense except when in the page
>> cotext. Links should be processed before, because, at least multimarkdown may
>> try to expand them as anchor-links.
>>
>> For now, my partial solution is to restrict links to not have space at the
>> start, this way in many cases escaping in code may be done in natural way
>> and not break copypastability. For example, shell 'if \[[ condition ]];'
>> will work fine with this.
>>
>> Maybe directives can also be restricted to only be allowed on the line by
>> themselves (not separated by blank lines, however) or something similar.
>>
>> --[[isbear]]

[[!debbug 487397]]
