This confuses me enormously. Perhaps because I am new to ikiwiki, to perl, to Linux, etc.

note and popups are templates? But they're not in the templates directory, and in my readings here, templates are supposed to be in the ../templates directory. 

> Ikiwiki has an basewiki underlay that provides wiki files not included in
> your personal wiki sources. The note and popup template pages are
> installed there, typically in `/usr/share/ikiwiki/basewiki/templates/`
> --[[Joey]]

> > And how am I able to use e.g. links? It's not listed in `/usr/share/ikiwiki/basewiki/templates`.
> > I intend do (mis)use links for a horizontal navigation. Or may I be better off altering page.tmpl?
> > --z3ttacht

----

Is there a list of the TMPL_VAR-Variables that are defined by ikiwiki?

What I'm trying to achieve is to print the URL of every page on the page itself and therefore I would need the corresponding value in the Template.

Am I missing something?  --[[jwalzer]]

> If there isn't a suitable variable (I don't think there is a list at
> the moment), a [[plugin|plugins/write]] to add one would be about 10
> lines of perl - you'd just need to define a `pagetemplate` hook. --[[smcv]]

----

Is there a list of all the available variables somewhere, or do I just grep the source for TMPL_VAR?  And is there a way to refer to a variable inside of a wiki page or does it have to be done from a template?  Thanks. -- [[AdamShand]]

I pulled a list of variables and posted it, its in the history for [[templates]] under my name. [[justint]]

----

I am trying to override `page.tmpl` by providing `templates/page.tmpl` in my `srcdir`- this works, but now `templates/page.tmpl` is created in my `destdir` as well! Is this expected? --chenz

> Yes. Every file found in the wiki is treated as either a page (passed through the whole
> rendering pipeline to HTML) or an attachment (copied as-is). --[[smcv]]

Is there a way to avoid this? --chenz

> With the page in your wiki's git repository: not currently.
> You can define a `templatedir` in your setup file and put your overridden page.tmpl
> there instead. --s

----

I'm seeing some curious behaviour with `$srcdir/templates/` templates not being found when
pushing from a remote computer. Touching the relevant file on the server and
`ikiwiki --setup wiki.setup --refresh -v` sorts it out. I have done `--refresh
--wrappers` just to be sure the hooks aren't out of date. Anyone knows what
might be causing this? I'm running a custom branch of ikiwiki master from a
couple of weeks ago so could be my own doing but my changes are mainly to the
album and img plugins. --[[kjs]]

> Seems like the issue is rather that the templates aren't found/triggered
> when the page render is set off by dependencies rather than direct editing
> of the page. Not the remove local issue mentioned above. --[[kjs]]

>> Thanks, that was the hint I needed to be able to reproduce this bug. It seems
>> to have been caused by an optimization: please try applying
>> [commit 5fd863b5](http://source.ikiwiki.branchable.com/?p=source.git;a=commitdiff;h=5fd863b5b05449669ec56c6798d836e3302386e2)
>> to your Render.pm. A follow-up commit partially restores the optimization,
>> only for rebuilds. --[[smcv]]

>>> I've applied both your patches and as far as I can tell it's now working
>>> as expected. Templates get rendered even if rebuild is triggered by
>>> comments on another page. --[[kjs]]
