## Multiple values arrays

This breaks if there are multiple values for a single key. It works fine in the report plugin, but inline display shows the ARRAY reference, e.g. 

    IPv6:
    - fd64:2c08:9fa7:4::1
    - 2001:470:1d:4a6::1

and:

    {{$IPv6}}

yields:

    ARRAY(0x266db10)

Seems to me this could be checked and `join(" ")`'d. :)

## Templating, and other uses

Like you mentioned in [[ftemplate]] IIRC, it'll only work on the same page. If it can be made to work anywhere, or from a specific place in the wiki - configurable, possibly - you'll have something very similar to mediawiki's templates. I can already think of a few uses for this combined with [[template]] ;) . --[[SR|users/simonraven]]

> Yes, I mentioned "only current page" in the "LIMITATIONS" section.

> What do you think would be a good syntax for querying other pages?
> It needs to resolve to a single page, though I guess using "bestlink" to find the closest page would mean that one didn't have to spell out the whole page.

>> I don't know the internals very well, I think that's how other plugins do it. *goes to check* Usually it's a `foreach` loop, and use a `pagestate{foo}` to check the page's status/state. There's also some stuff like 'pagespec_match_list($params{page}` ... they do slightly different thing depending on need. --[[SR|users/simonraven]]

>>> No, I meant what markup I should use; the actual implementation probably wouldn't be too difficult.

>>> The current markup is {{$*fieldname*}}; what you're wanting, perhaps it should be represented like {{$*pagename*:*fieldname*}}, or {{$*pagename*::*fieldname*}} or something else...
>>> -- [[KathrynAndersen]]

>>>> Oh. Hmm. I like your idea actually, or alternately, in keeping more with other plugins, doing it like {{pagename/fieldname}}. The meaning of the separator is less clear with /, but avoids potential issues with filename clashes that have a colon in them. It also keeps a certain logic - at least to me. Either way, I think both are good choices. [[SR|users/simonraven]]

>>>>> What about using {{pagename#fieldname}}? The meaning of the hash in URLs sort of fits with what is needed here (reference to a 'named' thing within the page) and it won't conflict with actual hash usages (unless we expect different named parts of pages to define different values for the same field ...)
>>>>> -- [[Oblomov]]
>>>>>> That's a good one too. --[[simonraven]]
>>>>>>> Done!  I used {{$*pagename*#*fieldname*}} for the format. -- [[users/KathrynAndersen]]


> I'm also working on a "report" plugin, which will basically apply a template like [[ftemplate]] does, but to a list of pages given from a pagespec, rather than the current page.

> -- [[users/KathrynAndersen]]

>> Ooh, sounds nice :) . --[[SR|users/simonraven]]

>>> I've now released the [[plugins/contrib/report]] plugin.  I've been using it on my site; the holdup on releasing was because I hadn't yet written the docs for it. I hope you find it useful.
>>> -- [[users/KathrynAndersen]]
