Would it be possible to add an option to only generate the index files
for the html output and not place the markdown files in the wiki source?

> Or better still, add a mechanism for ikiwiki to hold transient source
> pages in memory and render them as if they existed, without actually
> writing them out, as [[JoeRayhawk]] suggests below? I think
> add_autofile would be the way to do this.
> I've added this to [[todo]] as [[todo/autoindex should use add__95__autofile]]
> and [[todo/transient_pages]]. --[[smcv]]

The reason being that I have a lot of directories which need to be autoindexed,
but I would prefer if the index files didn't clutter up my git repository.

even without that feature the plugin is a great help, thanks


------

If you just don't want to clutter your git repo, below it's a patch does the following:

* If you set autoindex_commit to 0 in your ikiwiki.setup file, we *do* place auto-generated markdown files in the **wiki source** but *not* in the **repo**

* If you set autoindex_commit to 1 (this is the default), auto-generated index files will be put in the repo provided you enabled rcs backend.

[[!toggle id="patch-for-autoindex_commit" text="patch for autoindex_commit"]]
[[!toggleable id="patch-for-autoindex_commit" text="""
<pre>
--- autoindex.pm.orig	2009-10-01 17:13:51.000000000 +0800
+++ autoindex.pm	2009-10-01 17:21:09.000000000 +0800
@@ -17,6 +17,13 @@
 			safe => 1,
 			rebuild => 0,
 		},
+        autoindex_commit => {
+            type => 'boolean',
+            default => 1,
+            description => 'commit generated autoindex pages into RCS',
+            safe => 0,
+            rebuild => 0,
+        },
 }
 
 sub genindex ($) {
@@ -25,7 +32,7 @@
 	my $template=template("autoindex.tmpl");
 	$template->param(page => $page);
 	writefile($file, $config{srcdir}, $template->output);
-	if ($config{rcs}) {
+	if ($config{rcs} and $config{autoindex_commit}) {
 		IkiWiki::rcs_add($file);
 	}
 }
@@ -94,13 +101,13 @@
 	}
 	
 	if (@needed) {
-		if ($config{rcs}) {
+		if ($config{rcs} and $config{autoindex_commit}) {
 			IkiWiki::disable_commit_hook();
 		}
 		foreach my $page (@needed) {
 			genindex($page);
 		}
-		if ($config{rcs}) {
+		if ($config{rcs} and $config{autoindex_commit}) {
 			IkiWiki::rcs_commit_staged(
 				gettext("automatic index generation"),
 				undef, undef);
</pre>
"""]]
 
Warning:  I guess this patch may work, but I *haven't tested it yet*.  -- [[weakish]]

------

`autoindex_commit => 0` would be nice, but uncommited files are definitely not.
<pre>
remote: From /srv/git/test3
remote:    3047077..1df636c  master     -> origin/master
remote: error: Untracked working tree file 'test.mdwn' would be overwritten by merge.  Aborting
remote: 'git pull --prune origin' failed:  at /usr/share/perl5/IkiWiki/Plugin/git.pm line 201.
</pre>

It'd be nice if we were able to notice directories with no associated compilable markup files and compile a simple map directive straight to HTML without any intermediate markup file being involved at all. -- JoeRayhawk
