I initially thought this wasn't actually necessary - the combination
of [[plugins/template]] with [[plugins/contrib/field]]'s `pagetemplate`
hook ought to provide the same functionality. However, `template`
doesn't run `pagetemplate` hooks; a more general version of this
plugin would be to have a variant of `template` that runs `pagetemplate`
hooks (probably easiest to just patch `template` to implement a
second directive, or have a special parameter `run_hooks="yes"`,
or something).

> I got the impression that `pagetemplate` hooks are intended to be completely independent of `template` variables; page-template is for the actual `page.tmpl` template, while `template` is for other templates which are used inside the page content.  So I don't understand why one would need a run_hooks option. --[[KathrynAndersen]]

>> `Render`, `inline`, `comments` and `recentchanges` run `pagetemplate`
>> hooks, as does anything that uses `IkiWiki::misctemplate`. From that
>> quick survey, it seems as though `template` is the only thing that
>> uses `HTML::Template` but *doesn't* run `pagetemplate` hooks?
>>
>> It just seems strange to me that `field` needs to have its own
>> variant of `template` (this), its own variant of `inline` (`report`),
>> and so on - I'd tend to lean more towards having `field`
>> enhance the existing plugins. I'm not an ikiwiki committer,
>> mind... Joey, your opinion would be appreciated! --[[smcv]]

>>> I did it that way basically because I needed the functionality ASAP, and I didn't want to step on anyone's toes, so I made them as separate plugins.  If Joey wants to integrate the functionality into IkiWiki proper, I would be very happy, but I don't want to put pressure on him. --[[KathrynAndersen]]

Another missing thing is that `ftemplate` looks in
the "system" templates directories, not just in the wiki, but that
seems orthogonal (and might be a good enhancement to `template` anyway).
--[[smcv]]

> Yes, I added that because I wanted the option of not having to make all my templates work as wiki pages also. --[[KathrynAndersen]]

>> Joey has added support for
>> [[todo/user-defined_templates_outside_the_wiki]] now. --s
