ikiwiki 3.141 released with [[!toggle text="these changes"]]
[[!toggleable text="""
   * comment: Make comment directives no longer use the internal "\_comment"
     form, and document the comment directive syntax.
   * Avoid relying on translators preserving the case when translating
     "discussion", which caused Discussion pages to get unwanted Discussion
     links.
   * Tighten up matching of bare words inside directives; do not
     allow an unterminated triple string to be treated as a series
     of bare words. Fixes runaway regexp recursion/backtracking
     in strange situations.
   * Setup automator: Check that each plugin added to the generated
     setup file can be loaded and that its config is ok. If a plugin
     fails for any reason, disable it in the generated file.
     Closes: [532001](http://bugs.debian.org/532001)
   * pagecount: Fix broken optimisation for * pagespec.
   * goto: Support being passed a page title that is not a valid page
     name, to support several cases including mercurial's long user
     names on the RecentChanges page, and urls with spaces being handled
     by the 404 plugin.
   * Optimise use of gettext, and avoid ugly warnings if Locale::gettext
     is not available. Closes: #[532285](http://bugs.debian.org/532285)
   * meta: Add openid delegate parameter to allow delegating only
     openid or openid2.
   * Disable the Preferences link if no plugin with an auth hook is enabled.
   * Updated French translation. Closes: #[532654](http://bugs.debian.org/532654)
   * aggregate: Fix storing of changed md5.
   * aggregate: Avoid resetting ctime when an item md5 changes."""]]
