ikiwiki 3.20100403 released with [[!toggle text="these changes"]]
[[!toggleable text="""
   * websetup: Add websetup\_unsafe to allow marking other settings
     as unsafe.
   * Improve openid url munging; do not display anchors and cgi parameters,
     as used by yahoo and google urls.
   * Add complete German basewiki and directives translation done by
     Sebastian Kuhnert.
   * Add a include setting, which can be used to make ikiwiki process
     wiki source files, such as .htaccess, that would normally be skipped
     for security or other reasons. Closes: #[447267](http://bugs.debian.org/447267)
     (Thanks to Aaron Wilson for the original patch.)
   * Add support for setup files written in YAML.
   * Add --set-yaml switch for setting more complex config file options.
   * filecheck: Fix bugs that prevented the pagespecs from matching when
     not called by attachment plugin.
   * Fix incorrect influence info returned by a failing link() pagespec,
     that could lead to bad dependency handling in certain situations.
   * Add preprocessed 'use lib' line to ikiwiki-transition and ikiwiki-calendar
     if necessary for unusual install.
   * auto-blog.setup: Set tagbase by default, since most bloggers will want it.
   * Allow wrappers to be built using tcc. (Workaround #452876)
   * openid: Use Openid Simple Registration or OpenID Attribute Exchange
     to get the user's email address and username. (Neither is yet
     used, but they are available in the session object now.)
   * page.tmpl: Add Cache-Control must-revalidate to ensure that users
     (especially of Firefox) see fresh page content.
   * htmlscrubber: Allow colons in urls after '?'
   * template: Search for templates in the templatedir, if they are not
     found as pages in the wiki."""]]
