ikiwiki 3.20101231 released with [[!toggle text="these changes"]]
[[!toggleable text="""
   * Better support for serving the same site on multiple urls. (Such as
     a http and a https url, or a ipv4 and an ipv6 url.)
     (Thanks, smcv)
   * API: urlto without a defined second parameter now generates an url
     that starts with "/" (when possible; eg when the site's url and cgiurl
     are on the same domain).
   * Now when users log in via https, ikiwiki sends a secure cookie, that can
     only be used over https. If the user switches to using http, they will
     need to re-login. (smcv)
   * inline: Display feed buttons for nested inlines, linking to the inlined
     page's feed. (Giuseppe Bilotta)
   * goldtype: New theme, based on blueview, contributed by Lars Wirzenius.
   * po: do not override homepage title when it was overridden. (intrigeri)
   * Set HTML::Template's parent\_global\_vars option to allow using parameters
     like title\_overridden that do not appear on the template. (intrigeri)
     (See https://rt.cpan.org/Public/Bug/Display.html?id=64158)
   * inline: Force an absolute page location when the inline postform is used.
   * editpage, comment: Clean up title when editing or creating a page or
     comment.
   * teximg: Use `\[` and `\]` instead of not recommended `$$`. (Paul Menzel)
     Closes: #[596084](http://bugs.debian.org/596084)
   * monotone: Improve version parsing to support patch and development
     versions of the monotone binary. (tommyd3mdi)
   * highlight: Support highlight 3.2+svn19 (note that released version 3.2
     is not supported). Closes: #[605779](http://bugs.debian.org/605779) (David Bremner)
   * Add a second parameter to the rcs\_diff hook, and avoid bloating memory
     reading in enormous commits.
   * git: Fix bug involving attempting to web revert a commit that included
     changes to attachments."""]]