ikiwiki 3.20120419 released with [[!toggle text="these changes"]]
[[!toggleable text="""
   * Remove dead link from plugins/teximg. Closes: #[664885](http://bugs.debian.org/664885)
   * inline: When the pagenames list includes pages that do not exist, skip
     them.
   * meta: Export author information in html &lt;meta&gt; tag. Closes: #[664779](http://bugs.debian.org/664779)
     Thanks, Martin Michlmayr
   * notifyemail: New plugin, sends email notifications about new and
     changed pages, and allows subscribing to comments.
   * Added a "changes" hook. Renamed the "change" hook to "rendered", but
     the old hook name is called for now for back-compat.
   * meta: Support keywords header. Closes: #[664780](http://bugs.debian.org/664780)
     Thanks, Martin Michlmayr
   * passwordauth: Fix url in password recovery email to be absolute.
   * httpauth: When it's the only auth method, avoid a pointless and
     confusing signin form, and go right to the httpauthurl.
   * rename: Allow rename to be started not from the edit page; return to
     the renamed page in this case.
   * remove: Support removing of pages in the transient underlay. (smcv)
   * inline, trail: The pagenames parameter is now a list of absolute
     pagenames, not relative wikilink type names. This is necessary to fix
     a bug, and makes pagenames more consistent with the pagespec used
     in the pages parameter. (smcv)
   * link: Fix renaming wikilinks that contain embedded urls.
   * graphviz: Handle self-links.
   * trail: Improve CSS, also display trail links at bottom of page,
     and a bug fix. (smcv)"""]]