ikiwiki 3.20110905 released with [[!toggle text="these changes"]]
[[!toggleable text="""
   * mercurial: Openid nicknames are now used when committing. (Daniel Andersson)
   * mercurial: Implement rcs\_commit\_staged so comments, attachments, etc
     can be used. (Daniel Andersson)
   * mercurial: Implement rcs\_rename, rcs\_remove. (Daniel Andersson)
   * mercurial: Fix viewing of a diff containing non-utf8 changes.
     (Daniel Andersson)
   * mercurial: Make both rcs\_getctime and rcs\_getmtime fast. (Daniel Andersson)
   * mercurial: Implement rcs\_diff. (Daniel Andersson)
   * po: Add `LANG\_CODE` and `LANG\_NAME` template variables. (intrigeri)
   * Fix typo in Danish translation of shortcuts page that caused exponential
     regexp blowup.
   * Fix escaping of html entities in permalinks.
   * Fix escaping of html entities in tag names.
   * Avoid using named capture groups in heredoc code for oldperl compatibility.
   * Put in a workaround for #622591, by ensuring Search::Xapian gets loaded
     before Image::Magick.
   * Add unminified jquery js and css files to source.
   * Update to jquery 1.6.2, and jquery-ui 1.8.14.
   * Use lockf rather than flock when taking the cgilock, for better
     portability.
   * search: Fix encoding bug in calculation of maximum term size.
   * inline: When indexing internal pages for searching, use the url of
     the inlining page.
   * Fix comments testsuite to not rely on Date::Parse's ability to
     parse the date Columbus discovered America. Closes: #[640350](http://bugs.debian.org/640350)
   * Avoid warning message when generating setup file if highlight
     is not installed. Closes: #[637606](http://bugs.debian.org/637606)
   * Promote RPC::XML to a Recommends, since it's used by auto-blog.setup.
     Closes: #[637603](http://bugs.debian.org/637603)
   * Fix web revert of a file deletion."""]]