ikiwiki 3.20100722 released with [[!toggle text="these changes"]]
[[!toggleable text="""
   * img: Add a margin around images displayed by this directive.
   * comments: Added commentmoderation directive for easy linking to the
     comment moderation queue.
   * aggregate: Write timestamp next aggregation can happen to
     .ikiwiki/aggregatetime, to allow for more sophisticated cron jobs.
   * Add --changesetup mode that allows easily changing options in a
     setup file.
   * openid: Fix handling of utf-8 nicknames.
   * Clarified what the filter hook should be passed: Only be the raw,
     complete text of a page. Not a snippet, or data read in from an
     unrelated file.
   * template: Do not pass filled in template through filter hook.
     Avoids causing breakage in po plugin.
   * color, comments, conditional, cutpaste, more, sidebar, toggle: Also
     avoid unnecessary calls to filter hook.
   * po: needstranslation() pagespec can have a percent specified.
   * Drop Cache-Control must-revalidate (Firefox 3.5.10 does not seem to have
     the caching problem that was added to work around). Closes: #[588623](http://bugs.debian.org/588623)
   * Made much more robust in cases where multiple source files produce
     conflicting files/directories in the destdir.
   * Updated French translation from Philippe Batailler. Closes: #[589423](http://bugs.debian.org/589423)
   * po: Fix selflink display on tranlsated pages. (intrigeri)
   * Avoid showing 'Add a comment' link at the bottom of the comment post form."""]]