ikiwiki 3.20170622 released with [[!toggle text="these changes"]]
[[!toggleable text="""
   * `t/git-cgi.t`: Wait 1 second before doing a revert that should work.
     This hopefully fixes a race condition in which the test failed
     around 6% of the time. (Closes: #[862494](http://bugs.debian.org/862494))
   * Guard against set-but-empty `REMOTE_USER` CGI variable on
     misconfigured nginx servers, and in general treat sessions with
     a set-but-empty name as if they were not signed in.
   * When the CGI fails, print the error to stderr, not "Died"
   * mdwn: Don't mangle <code>&lt;style&gt;</code> into <code>&lt;elyts&gt;</code> under some circumstances
   * mdwn: Enable footnotes by default when using the default Discount
     implementation. A new `mdwn_footnotes` option can be used to disable
     footnotes in MultiMarkdown and Discount.
   * mdwn: Don't enable alphabetically labelled ordered lists by
     default when using the default Discount implementation. A new
     `mdwn_alpha_list` option can be used to restore the old
     interpretation.
   * osm: Convert savestate hook into a changes hook. savestate is not
     the right place to write wiki content, and in particular this
     breaks websetup if osm's dependencies are not installed, even
     if the osm plugin is not actually enabled.
     (Closes: #[719913](http://bugs.debian.org/719913))
   * toc: if the heading is of the form `<h1 id="...">`, use that for
     the link in the table of contents (but continue to generate
     `<a name="index42"></a>` in case someone was relying on it).
     Thanks, [[Antoine Beaupré|anarcat]]
   * color: Do not leak markup into contexts that take only the plain
     text, such as toc
   * meta: Document `\[[!meta name="foo" content="bar"]]`
   * debian: Use preferred https URL for Format of `debian/copyright`
   * debian: Declare compliance with Debian Policy 4.0.0"""]]
