ikiwiki 3.20100915 released with [[!toggle text="these changes"]]
[[!toggleable text="""
   * needsbuild hook interface changed; the hooks should now return
     the modified array of things that need built. (Backwards compatibility
     code keeps plugins using the old interface working.)
   * Remove PATH overriding code in ikiwiki script that was present to make
     perl taint checking happy, but taint checking is disabled.
   * teximg: Use Unicode UTF-8 encoding by default. Closes: #[596067](http://bugs.debian.org/596067)
     Thanks, Paul Menzel.
   * po: Make the po\_master\_language use a langpair like "en|English",
     so it can be configured via the web.
   * po: Allow enabling via web setup.
   * po: Auto-upgrade old format settings to new formats when writing
     setup file.
   * Pass array of names of files that have been deleted to needsbuild hook
     as second parameter, to allow for plugins that needs access to this
     information earlier than the delete hook.
   * actiontabs: Improve tab padding.
   * blueview: Fix display of links to translated pages in the page header.
   * Set isPermaLink="no" for guids in rss feeds.
   * blogspam: Fix crash when content contained utf-8.
   * external: Disable RPC::XML's "smart" encoding, which sent ints
     for strings that contained only a number, fixing a longstanding crash
     of the rst plugin.
   * git: When updating from remote, use git pull --prune, to avoid possible
     errors from conflicting obsolete remote branches.
   * cutpaste: Fix bug that occured in some cases involving inlines when
     text was pasted on a page before being cut."""]]