ikiwiki 3.20160121 released with [[!toggle text="these changes"]]
[[!toggleable text="""
 * [ [[Amitai Schlair|schmonz]] ]
   * [[plugins/meta]]: Fix `\[[!meta name=foo]]` by closing the open quote.
   * Avoid unescaped `{` in regular expressions
   * meta test: Add tests for many behaviors of the directive.
   * img test: Bail gracefully when [[!cpan ImageMagick]] is not present.
 * [ [[Joey Hess|joey]] ]
   * [[plugins/emailauth]]: Added `emailauth_sender` config.
   * Modified `page.tmpl` to to set html `lang=` and `dir=` when
     values have been specified for them, which the [[plugins/po|po plugin]] does.
   * Specifically license the javascript underlay under the permissive
     basewiki license.
 * [ [[Simon McVittie|smcv]] ]
   * [[plugins/git]]: if no committer identity is known, set it to
     `IkiWiki <ikiwiki.info>` in `.git/config`. This resolves commit errors
     in versions of git that require a non-trivial committer identity.
   * [[plugins/inline]], [[plugins/trail]]: rename `show`, `feedshow` parameters to `limit`, `feedlimit`
     (with backwards compatibility)
   * [[plugins/pagestats]]: add `show` option to show [[plugins/meta]] fields. Thanks, [[Louis|spalax]]
   * [[plugins/inline]]: force RSS `<comments>` to be a fully absolute URL as required
     by the W3C validator. Please use Atom feeds if relative URLs are
     desirable on your site.
   * [[plugins/inline]]: add `<atom:link rel="self">` to RSS feeds as recommended by
     the W3C validator
   * [[plugins/inline]]: do not produce links containing `/./` or `/../`
   * syslog: accept and encode UTF-8 messages
   * syslog: don't fail to log if the wiki name contains `%s`
   * Change dependencies from transitional package [[!debpkg perlmagick]]
     to [[!debpkg libimage-magick-perl]] (Closes: #[789221](http://bugs.debian.org/789221))
   * debian/copyright: update for the rename of `openid-selector` to
     `login-selector`
   * d/control: remove leading article from Description
     (lintian: description-synopsis-starts-with-article)
   * d/control: Standards-Version: 3.9.6, no changes required
   * Wrap and sort control files (`wrap-and-sort -abst`)
   * Silence "used only once: possible typo" warnings for variables
     that are part of modules' APIs
   * Run [[!debpkg autopkgtest]] tests using [[!debpkg autodep8]] and the pkg-perl team's
     infrastructure
   * Add enough build-dependencies to run all tests, except for
     non-git VCSs
   * tests: consistently use `done_testing` instead of `no_plan`
   * `t/img.t`: do not spuriously skip
   * img test: skip testing PDFs if unsupported
   * img test: use the right filenames when testing that deletion occurs"""]]
