ikiwiki 3.20100831 released with [[!toggle text="these changes"]]
[[!toggleable text="""
   * filecheck: Fall back to using the file command if the freedesktop
     magic file cannot identify a file.
   * flattr: New plugin. (Thanks to jaywalk for the initial implementation
     at a flattr plugin! This one is less configurable, but simpler.)
   * smiley: warn instead of error for missing smileys (Giuseppe Bilotta)
   * openid: Syntax tweak to the javascript code to make it work with MSIE 7
     (and MSIE 8 in compat mode). Thanks to Iain McLaren for reporting
     the bug and providing access to debug it.
   * style.css: Use relative, not absolute font sizes. Thanks, Giuseppe Bilotta.
   * htmlscrubber: Do not scrub url anchors that contain colons.
   * Danish translation update. Closes: #[594673](http://bugs.debian.org/594673)
   * highlight: Make location of highlight's files configurable in setup
     file to allow for nonstandard installations.
   * Allow "link(.)" and similar PageSpecs. Thanks, Giuseppe Bilotta.
   * Run the preprocess hooks in scan mode *before* the scan hooks.
     This allows the po plugin to register a scan hook that runs
     last and rescans pages after all data from the first scan pass is
     completed. This avoids the po plugin needing to rebuild some pages.
     (intrigeri)
   * po: Fix some bugs that affected l10n.ikiwiki.info's unusual
     setup. (intrigeri)
   * t/bazaar.t: Work around bzr 2.2.0's new requirement to configure
     bzr whoami before committing.
   * httpauth: Avoid redirecting the user to the cgiauthurl if
     they already have a login session."""]]