News for ikiwiki 3.1415926:

   In order to fix a performance bug, all wikis need to be rebuilt on
   upgrade to this version. If you listed your wiki in
   /etc/ikiwiki/wikilist this will be done automatically when the
   Debian package is upgraded. Or use ikiwiki-mass-rebuild to force
   a rebuild.

ikiwiki 3.1415926 released with [[!toggle text="these changes"]]
[[!toggleable text="""
 * [ Joey Hess ]
   * po: Detect if nowrapi18n can't be passed to po4a, and warn about
     the old version, but continue. Closes: #[541205](http://bugs.debian.org/541205)
   * inline: Avoid use of my $\_ as it fails with older perls.
     Closes: #[541215](http://bugs.debian.org/541215)
   * Add discussionpage configuration setting.
   * Several optimisations, including speedups to orphans and brokenlinks
     calculation.
   * meta, img: Fix bugs in dependency code. (smcv)
   * Allow building ikiwiki on systems w/o po4a --
     building of the translated underlays will be skipped in this case.
   * Add basic styling of po plugin's languages list.
   * inline: Display an error if feedpages is specified and fails to match
     due to a problem such as created\_before being told to check against
     a page that does not exist.
   * Remove deprecated ikiwiki/blog and ikiwiki/preprocessordirective
     pages from the basewiki.
   * Updated French program translation from Philippe Batailler.
     Closes: #[542036](http://bugs.debian.org/542036)
   * po: Fixed to run rcs\_add ralative to srcdir.
   * Italian program translation from Luca Bruno.
   * Fix example blog's tags/life to not have a broken PageSpec.
     Closes: #[543510](http://bugs.debian.org/543510)
   * Optimize the dependencies list. This also fixes a bug
     that could cause repeated refreshes of the wiki to grow
     increasingly larger dependency lists, and get increasingly
     slower. (smcv)
   * Rebuild wikis on upgrade to this version to fix bloat caused
     by the dependency bug.
   * Further optimisation of dependency handling by adding a special
     case for simple page dependencies. (smcv)
   * htmltidy: Return an error message if tidy fails. Closes: #[543722](http://bugs.debian.org/543722)
   * po: Fix name of translated toplevel index page. (intrigeri)
   * po: Fix display of links from a translated page to itself (ntrigeri)
   * Add Czech basewiki translation from Miroslav Kure.
   * po: fix interdiction to create pages of type po (intrigeri)
   * po: po: favor the type of linking page's masterpage on page creation
     (intrigeri)
   * img: Don't generate new verison of image if it is scaled to be
     larger in either dimension.
 * [ Josh Triplett ]
   * teximg: Replace the insufficient blacklist with the built-in security
     mechanisms of TeX. ([[!cve CVE-2009-2944]])"""]]
