ikiwiki 3.20110707 released with [[!toggle text="these changes"]]
[[!toggleable text="""
   * userlist: New plugin, lets admins see a list of users and their info.
   * aggregate: Improve checking for too long aggregated filenames.
   * Updated to jQuery 1.6.1.
   * attachment: Speed up multiple file uploads by storing uploaded files
     in a staging area until the page is saved/previewed, rather than
     refreshing the site after each upload.
     (Sponsored by The TOVA Company.)
   * attachment: Files can be dragged into the edit page to upload them.
     Multiple file batch upload support. Upload progress bars.
     AJAX special effects. Impemented using the jQuery-File-Upload widget.
     (If you don't have javascript don't worry, I kept that working too.)
     (Sponsored by The TOVA Company.)
   * Add libtext-multimarkdown-perl to Suggests. Closes: #[630705](http://bugs.debian.org/630705)
   * headinganchors: Plugin by Paul Wise that adds ids to &lt;hn&gt; headings.
   * html5 is not experimental anymore. But not the default either, quite yet.
   * Support svg as a inlinable image type; svg images can be included on a
     page by simply linking to them, or by using the img directive.
     Note that sanitizing svg files is still not addressed.
   * img: Generate png format thumbnails for svg images.
   * Preserve mixed case in page creation links, and when creating a page
     whose title is mixed case, allow selecting between the mixed case and
     all lower-case names.
   * Fix ikiwiki-update-wikilist -r to actually work.
   * comments: collect metadata in a scan-phase preprocess hook, which
     fixes sorting comments by date. (smcv)
   * Run scan hooks for internal pages (preprocess hooks already run in scan
     mode) (smcv)
   * inline: Handle obfuscated urls, such as the mailto urls generated by
     markdown when forcing urls absolute.
   * Bugfix for wikilink containing an email address not showing up in
     brokenlinks list.
   * Bugfix for trying to attach files to a subpage of the index page."""]]