News for ikiwiki 3.20091017:

   To take advantage of significant performance improvements, all
   wikis need to be rebuilt on upgrade to this version. If you
   listed your wiki in /etc/ikiwiki/wikilist this will be done
   automatically when the Debian package is upgraded. Or use
   ikiwiki-mass-rebuild to force a rebuild.

ikiwiki 3.20091017 released with [[!toggle text="these changes"]]
[[!toggleable text="""
   * Added support framework for multiple types of dependencies, including
     dependncies that are only affected by page precence or link changes.
   * Rebuild wikis on upgrade to this version to get improved dependency
     info.
   * pagecount, calendar, postsparkline, progress: Use a presence dependency,
     which makes these directives much less expensive to use, since page
     edits will no longer trigger an unnecessary update.
   * map: Use a presence dependency unless show= is specified.
     This makes maps efficient enough that they can be used on sidebars!
   * inline: Use a presence dependency in quick mode.
   * brokenlinks: Use a link dependency.
     This makes it much more efficient, only updating when really necessary.
   * orphans, pagestats: Use a combination of presence and link dependencies.
     This makes them more efficient. It also fixes a longstanding bug,
     where if only a small set of pages were considered by orphans/pagestats,
     changes to links on other pages failed to cause an update.
   * linkmap: Use a combination of presence and link dependencies.
     This makes the map be regenerated much less frequently in many cases,
     so larger maps are more practical to use now.
   * Plugins providing PageSpec `match\_*` functions should pass additional
     influence information when creating result objects. This allows correctly
     handling many more complicated dependencies.
   * API change: `pagespec\_match\_list` has completly changed its interface.
     The old interface will be removed soon, and a warning will be printed
     if any plugins try to use it.
   * Transitive dependencies are now correctly supported.
   * ikiwiki-calendar: New command automates creation of archive pages
     using the calendar plugin.
   * calendar: Fix midnight rebuild trigger of calendars with explicit
     month/year.
   * calendar: Fix bug in next/previous year/month links, which sometimes
     linked to an archive page from the wrong year, or were missing.
   * git: --getctime will now follow renames back to the original creation
     of a file.
   * calendar: Fix CSS for year calendar to match the plugin documentation.
   * Added minimal default CSS for calendar plugin, just highlighting the
     current day.
   * inline: Optimize generation of archives, etc by not getting inlined page
     content if the template does not use it."""]]