### CGI requirement when using \[\[\!waypoint\]\] on pages?

Most of the osm plugin works well without cgi. The link from waypoints however use ikiwiki.cgi, at least in my configuration. Is this actually required or is it possible to use a pre rendered page to avoid running cgi on the server?

At the moment I'd prefer not running cgi and one of the advantages of a wiki compiler is that you could run without cgi on the server.

This is a minor issue but I'd be interested if you think it's possible to prerender waypoint maps. I.e maps that center on a specific waypoint whilst having all waypoints of that map visible.

> I think it would be possible, but it would require a patch. I do think however that this is the way it works: all waypoints are shown, and the only difference is that the map is centered. --[[anarcat]]

### Configure all osm tags to use same icon?

Setting the default `osm_tag_default_icon` does not seem to work? All tagged waypoint pages now want their own unique icon and display broken image if not present. Populating the tag folder with identical icons gets a bit much when there are a lot of tags.

> That looks like a bug. Please file it as such in [[bugs]]. --[[anarcat]]

### \[Wishlist\] Setting unigue icon for "active waypoint"

For usability it would be great if it was possible to display the active waypoint with a different icon. So that clicking a waypoint map symbol takes you to a map with lots of waypoints but the waypoint from the sources page is centered (as per current behaviour) **and** has a different icon.

> This *would* indeed be awesome. --[[anarcat]]

*PS. The osm plugin is amazing!*

> Thanks! --[[anarcat]]

-----

## Updated plugin needs review and merge

[[!template id=gitbranch branch=tincho-osm author="[[tincho]]"]]

[[schmonz]] here. I recently tried to use this plugin, had some trouble, and discovered on IRC that [[tincho]] has a largely [rewritten version](https://blog.tincho.org/posts/OSM_in_IkiWiki/) that looks good [on his site](https://blog.tincho.org/Mingle/), but hadn't gotten around to submitting for merge. So we remote-paired on it today, improved a few things, and wrote down what we noticed:

### Features removed

- Google Maps API
- Multiple layers
- Customized waypoint icons
- Full-screen map (via the CGI)
- Whatever "editable" did (maybe something interactive?)
- OpenLayers -> Leaflet (if anyone was somehow depending on OpenLayers)

### Features added

- Maps actually work again
- Maps work when embedded in HTTPS sites
- Multiple maps and multiple waypoints in a page probably work better now
- Maps _do_ appear in inlines
- Pagestate hash gets cleaned up better after edit/preview/delete

### Wishlist

- Optionally do something (render a static image?) for RSS
- When drawing lines between waypoints that are linked, optionally draw an arrow
- Performance/ikiwiki-idiomaticness: generate one GeoJSON file per waypoint, then rely on getting changed waypoints from the `changes()` hook
- Treat optional waypoint description as Markdown (or whatever input format you're using)
- Simplify scrubbing (maybe avoid needing HTML::Scrubber)

### Questions for reviewers

- Given this is backward-incompatible, dhould we call it something other than "osm"?
- What needs scrubbing? Have we covered all the bases? Too many bases?
- Should we vendor Leaflet into an underlay, instead of needing a URL to load it from a CDN? [[schmonz]] somewhat prefers this, so we avoid needing external resources by default, avoid breaking when the Leaflet CDN is down, etc.
- Should we write some tests before merging? `osm.pm` hadn't had any, FWIW

----

Just stumbled onto this. 

With regards to features lost my only concern would be customizable waypoint icons. It would be really great to be able to at least change colour from the config. The wishlist point of generating one file per waypoint might solve an issue I have with osm only showing the most recently added waypoints unless I rebuild. I have however a huge number of waypoints.

Looks like good changes to me!

> did a grep `Placemark pois.kml|wc -l` which returned 3468. Which perhaps isn't that much? I'm thinking about how individual poi files might affect performance. My performance troubles are more likely to be with my tweaked album and img plugins though.

--[[kjs]]
