## How do you provide the per post discussion links in your own blog?

> That's configured by the "actions" parameter to the inline directive. See
> docs in [[plugins/inline]]. --[[Joey]]

And do you have any ideas/hints about implementing a "comments" feature.
What I'm after is something for users who don't quite understand the Wiki
style for discussions.  I would like to have a form for them to post a
comment and have the comment appended to the discussion Wiki-style.  Maybe
take it as far as implementing "replies" to other comments.

-- Marcelo

> See [[plugins/comments]]
> --[[Joey]]

---

## More dynamic `rootpage` parameter of inline plugin?

(Moved to [[todo/dynamic_rootpage]])

---

## Excluding Images

Is there a simple way to exclude images, stylesheets, and other
"non-page" files other than a blacklist approach like
`pages="* and !*.png and !*.css"`?  --[[JasonBlevins]]

> The [[plugins/filecheck]] plugin adds a 'ispage()' pagespec test that can do that.
> --[[Joey]]

---

## Documentation for parameter `template`?

I would be especially interested in a list of variables which can be used in such a template.

> I try to keep ikiwiki's templates self-documenting, so if you take
> a look at a template used by inline, such as the default `/usr/share/ikiwiki/template/inlinepage.tmpl`,
> you can see all or nearly all the template variables in use in it.

I have a page template with some structured information as parameters. For
example `location="nowhere"` and `price="20"`. Is there a possibility to
extract those information, i. e. access the parameters, to compose the item
for the inline directive from these information? For example the line »Go
to nowhere for 20 bugs.« is shown inlined.

--[[PaulePanter]]

> Let's not confuse the template directive with the templates used by inline.
> When a page is inlined, any template directives in it are first expanded,
> using the user-defined templates for that. Then, the inline directive's
> template is used to insert it into the inlining page.
> 
> So no, you can't reference template directive parameters inside inline's
> template, because it's already expanded at that point. --[[Joey]] 
